e
e for
[Music]
oh
for
[Music]
e
m e
[Music]
for
now
[Music]
[Laughter]
w
[Music]
for
hi everyone the talk will be starting in
10 minutes so please get seated it
[Music]
e
hi everyone the session will be starting
in 5 minutes
[Music]
for
[Laughter]
[Music]
for I
oh
[Music]
good morning everyone
I hope that everyone has had an amazing
week at Devcon so far I know I
definitely have and Welcome to our final
day of talks so today we have a really
exciting lineup for you of talks
lightning talks and a panel discussion
on real world ethereum and coordination
my name is Vanessa and I'll be your MC
for today but before we get started with
the program a few housekeeping reminders
first so we really welcome you to take
photos and videos of the sessions but
please remember to switch your phones to
silent mode and also turn off the flash
so as not to distract the speakers on
stage and the second thing is please
submit your Q&A questions early on mirat
so how you can do this is you can open
your Devcon passport app and then click
on the current talk session that you're
in then scroll down to the page and you
will find four things you will see a
live stream video and then the second
thing is a translation option where you
can click on the various Flags to change
the language that you're listening to
the talk in the third thing is the
collaborative notes section where you
can write posts and upload pictures or
videos from um the talks and then the
last and most important thing is the
live Q&A button so once you click on
that it brings you into miacat and then
you click join Q&A and you can submit
your questions at any point in time
during the talk or even before the talk
you can start submitting your questions
now and remember to upvote the questions
that are your favorite to ensure that
they get answered by the speaker during
the Q&A session and there are also a
couple other functionalities in the
mircat app so you can collect cards to
prove that you are at all of the these
talks that you attended kind of reminds
me of like collecting Pokemon cards when
I was a kid so it's pretty fun um and
then you can also leave speaker feedback
just to let the speakers know that they
did a good job and that you know the
insights that they shared were really
inspiring so yep um and if you don't
want to you know open your Devcon
passport app there's another way you can
access miacat which is that once the
talks start and then the slides come on
there will be a QR code on the bottom
left hand corner that you can scan to
just join the live Q&A so yeah without
further Ado let me introduce our first
Speaker of the day who is Noah an
innovator in bridging web 3 and real
world Solutions including a
decentralized identity program in Taiwan
and also funding for open-source
projects today he will be sharing
insights on the challenges that the gov
zero Community has faced as well as how
initiatives like Zero have responded um
and also what's still needed for a
sustainable future moving forward so
without further Ado let's put our hands
together for
[Applause]
[Music]
Noah can you guys hear
me okay hi guys my name is Noah so today
I'm going to talk about about the
strategies of making changes and our
Reflections from Taiwan so 10 years ago
this community called go zero started in
Taiwan it started from having a bunch of
hackers trying to open up government
data and later in the years it become a
become of uh digital democracy in in
globally in the world a leader of
digital democracy in the world and in
recent years the momentum has slowed
down a little bit so so two years ago me
and my uh partner Vivian here uh
basically started this initiative called
Dow zero and the mission was to
supercharge gozero to supercharge the
digital democracy movement and we did
did a bunch of things this include uh
the decentralized ID uh uh pilots in
Taiwan this include various retroactive
uh funding experiments this include a a
lot of research funding the commer taipe
Dow type plurality pay a bunch of
different things but at certain point I
started asking myself what has really
changed did we really were we really
able to help at certain point uh despite
the uh success of all the relative
success of all the experiments um La
this year in April gozero basically
posted this picture saying that okay so
um we're running out of funding please
donate to G so it can uh keep running
its bonly hackathons continuously which
the B monthly hackathons for 10 years it
has never uh passed once so this is uh a
signal that maybe despite all the
experiments that we've done uh maybe we
need to go deeper on how we can make
systemic change in the future so if we
are to initiate something new if we
really want to change system to the
better positively sustainably what are
the strategies we are to adopt what are
the potential tools we can use and what
are the roles we need to play inside
these
systems so I think of course there are a
lot of research being done and one of
them is probably a lot of people here is
not so unfamiliar with is the complex
systems I won't go into details of what
complex systems are but I will talk
about the concept
of emergence so emergence is the systems
behaviors for example the birds you can
see right here the flock of birds the
movement how it moves this is uh the
phenomena this is the emergence of a
system working together and the crypto
Market going up and down the stock
market going up and down how the traffic
moves these are all uh uh example of uh
emergence and what caused this emergence
uh the answer does not likee in the
individual unit the composition of the
individual unit but for take the birds
for example it's just a couple of simple
rules that make the birds move this way
and it's actually really simple the
birds basically think about we I won't
say too close or too far from each other
and I will align my direction of flight
uh according to the the birds around me
so that's how this uh emergence becomes
so
if change is emergence and emergence is
caused by a set of simple rules then
maybe sustainable change maybe change uh
if we want to make change then we need
to uh build the adoptions of uh new
rules new interaction rules that's
naturally developed not someone tell us
what to do but naturally developed
between the individuals inside the
systems so these are some if you uh go
to if you scan the QR code you can see a
full article talking about all these
potential leverage points that we now
know that the point of changing the
systems is basically to change the rules
of interactions and what kind of tools
can we use so the lower uh the less
powerful and lower order uh tools are uh
changing the inputs and outputs of the
systems or changing the speed of of
inflows and outflows of the system
people what people will be familiar here
is the mechanism design you can design
the punishment you can design the
rewards of the system to encourage
people to do do certain things you can
also change the goals of the systems
these are some leverage points that
people can use to basically try to
change uh how a system behaves however
if you think about it that we don't
always listen to our teachers right or
we don't always listen to our cosos or
boss we don't always listen to the
leaders in the Dallas and we B they can
uh uh have rules set up for the
organization but we don't always behave
that way uh the interactions between me
and my peers individual with another
individual is not always follow the the
rules of the system and the more
powerful leverage points that people can
use is actually changing the mindset
changing how people believes what people
believes changing the Paradigm of system
that's the more
powerful uh uh leverage point that
people can use but coming back to now I
know the the key is to change the rules
and The Leverage points are the tools
where do I put myself inside a system
that has the biggest potential to make
actual changes there are four that I
listed the first one is top down right
top down I don't need to talk about the
top the the problems with the top down
approach disc Cor ition there's all that
but the real limitations the the
strength of the top down approach is
that it has access to a lot of different
to tools that we talked about it can
change the taxes it can change the the
bottom line it can have the punishment
it can C have the reward mechanisms to
to do mechanism designed to change the
system U but take uh Global sdg gos for
example it's a very top- down approach
right but only 16% of the the global SG
goals are on track right now there are
limitations to what the toptown approach
uh despite all the problems can actually
change in today's world and so this is
uh uh the top down approach the second
one is bottom up we talk about
decentralized organizations we talk
about all these uh movements occupi Wall
Street and all that and of course the
bottom of approach you don't have as
many leverage points and the tools that
you can use uh to change the systems but
you might have the most powerful ones
which is the changing the Paradigm
changing the mindset changing the
beliefs of the whole uh system so and
the the way to measure success for this
uh bottom up think about what the
mandelas uh idea that Aya mentioned in
the starting keynote that's one example
of influencing inspiring the system and
the measure is basically not to uh
measure the actual system output but to
measure the initiatives that these
bottomup approaches actually inspired so
this is how we measure uh the success of
these bottom up approaches the third one
is the outsid in approach so basically
you have the uh uh pop-up cities you
have the network states you have the
experimental schools and the uh problem
with these uh pop uh these outsid
approaches is very clear that is doesn't
have direct control over the tools Over
The Leverage points that we just talked
about you have to indirectly influence
the top down or the bottom of approach
to basically make changes but it's not
unprecedented experimental schools in
the 1990s basically was the inspiration
for No Child Left Behind policies in the
United States so that was one of the
case that was successful but the one I
really most want to talk about that's
the most effective is possibly the
Catalyst approach so Christina figures
was the head of uh U uh
unfccc um in 2015 she pulled together
195 Nations to agree upon the Paris
agreement which uh probably most people
have heard about uh uh here and the key
turning point how she would talk about
it is is that she has this stubborn
optimism that pushes things forward but
I think the key turning point is that
she pushes enough it's clear today now
but it wasn't back then it's the pushes
forward the clean energy industry to the
point that the cost is low uh is lowered
and the capacity was increased to the
point that it made economic sense for
the Nations and for the corporations and
not just to meet their existing goals
but to exist exceed their their their
current goals so the key here is how
might we develop nurture build Solutions
there are there are value aligned but at
the same time it helps system existing
system players to exceed their goals
that should really uh uh catalyze the
changes that we might want to see so but
with all the changes we know the
strategies we know the tools and we know
where what kind of roles we play how do
we know that we are really making
positive emergence the answer is we
probably don't uh Zuckerberg didn't
imagine that he will cause a whole
generation of anxiety when he started
Facebook right but if you look at Peter
sji EV 11 laws of systems thinking the
highlighted ones today's problems come
from yesterday's Solutions the far the
harder you push the harder the system
pushes back faster is not always slower
so my personal guideline from making
changes now the first one is to be
Catalyst uh because that's the mo
probably the most effective way of
making changes hold on to Stubborn
optimism to learn from Christina figures
to learn from the Paris agreement
example uh build value aligned solutions
that help system players exceed existing
goals so not just build ethical
Solutions but also make sure this
actually uh ethical Solutions at the
same time may be able to uh for example
uh get more be more profitable than the
existing Solutions so the system players
go towards that direction slowly
currently because we don't know what
kind of negative externality we're going
to create and no blame this is system
ignorance is now one person's fault so
we are oing this together we all have a
responsibility so hopefully the this is
helpful for the change makers out there
and that will be my talk thank
you thank you so much Noah for sharing
your insights so we'll begin the Q&A
portion um if you haven't already yet
please scan the QR code or open the
devcom passport app to submit your
questions so we'll start with the first
one thanks for the great insights not to
split hairs but isn't Catalyst just a
different form out outside in yeah I I
think it depends how you look at it so
um basically the the difference is the
outsid in approach is uh you like the
popup Villages uh or the um experimental
schools they build a perfect world
outside of the existing systems but the
catalyst is actually working with
existing system players to make sure
they achieve their goals so one of uh
the outting approach is mostly like a
demonstration right but it's not
directly influence inuencing The
Leverage Point inside the existing
systems yet the catalyst is directly
trying to uh influence the the The
Leverage points inside the system I
think that is the uh
difference all right and while we are oh
another question if you can go back to
two years ago what would you change wow
this is this is something I'm just
starting to think about so I'm not
entirely sure but like I said I will
probably try to adopt the Catalyst
approach and see how I can work with
exist existing system players try to
understand their goals and take time to
develop the kind of Technology the kind
of Solution that's driving uh this
forward one one example I think might be
interesting recently there's a book
called the uh infectious generosity uh
written by Chris Anderson from tet talk
from wired and so that is that book is
talking about how generosity combined
with cre creativity can actually be a
business strategy that because
generosity can go very viral on the
internet so if we Infuse that value
aligned Solutions with the uh existing
uh goals of the system players who is
wanting to get more exposure that might
cause some changes so that might be a
Direction that's that uh I'm thinking
about as well all right and I see we
have some up voed questions so say
someone wants to stop start a movement
to achieve more visibility in a country
with a lack of culture of digital
democracy how do you get
started I I think it is very different
in every single country or it is very
different in every single context but so
I cannot say for sure but of course what
I did not talk about is uh uh the the
way of changing system is that I assume
that the original systems is already
intact and can be changed but there are
of course certain um uh certain
scenarios where the existing system
should be overthrown or uh should become
a competitor of the existing system
that's a completely different scenario
that we're talking about so it really
depends on the context but happy to
answer if you can uh give me more
context when I go down the stage happy
to talk thank you so much Noah we are at
time for his session but if you are
really interested in getting to share
with him more please feel free to look
for him around the stage and yeah we
will be moving on to our next talk so
that is a lightning talk by shinya Mori
of fron research and he will be sharing
with us some insights on a comparative
study that he did um analyzing various
Grant programs and highlighting the key
differences in the way that they
distribute funds and impact and how that
impacts Grant you
so one quick note before we bring shya
on stage um we understand that if you've
been on stage four and attended some of
the other lightning talks that they may
have done the method where they throw
the box to you but because this is a
stage with both lightning talks and
regular talks we'll be sticking with the
mirat um option so please open up your
Devcon passport apps submit your
questions or wait until the slides are
on stage before you know scanning the QR
code so without further Ado let's give a
round of applause sh and welcome him on
[Music]
stage hi everyone so and today's I'd
like to talk about my latest my latest
research so for so effective Public
Funding anyone who is G gaining some
grants from communities or dos
anyone great and then who is managing
Grant
programs it's great you are definitely
public Builders public contributors and
um so my talk is useful for um for
Grants so to to manage grants program in
the
future introductions
so the purpose of so my research is to
achieve better gr programs I mean better
GRS program is a more effective and more
fair programs and um I'd like to
discover the difference um among various
gr programs by Closs comparing so so
like I know so gr program leer so you
know and then especially so we are we
are focusing on
so different type of decision making
bodies yeah here's a um so our Target
grant program so and then today so there
are many project contributing to Public
Funding or grants
programs we can we can categorize grants
programs into three types Foundation
type Democratic type and quadratic
funding typee I mean Foundation type is
uh so Foundation types member are arbitr
selected or um yeah or sorry ex and then
so arbitr selected or accepted by token
holders token Bing I mean Democratic
type members are basically so token
holders including
delegates or so ected by token holders
token barding quadratic funding type is
using basically quadratic
funding so results of our research and
Analysis yeah here is a um grants amount
normaliz normalized grants amount data
so who each round in Grants in various
Grant
programs you can see so Foundation type
so has a so larger larger gr amount and
larger
variations I mean so variation is a so
difference so difference between so max
gr amount and minimum Grant
amount so on the other hand Democratic
type and quadratic funding type has a
smaller variation and then smaller Grant
amount yeah yeah clearly you can see the
so Foundation type has a so larger
larger variation and then so Democratic
type and quatic funding type has a
smaller
variation so as
hypothesis Grant amount depends on the
grant operation
types so Democratic type and quadratic
funding type tend to distribute f
so more evenly and with a small gr mon
smaller variation and then larger
Gres on the other hand Foundation type
um Foundation type tends to distribute
funds so with so larger larger Grant
amount and then larger variation and
fewer
Gres so I think Foundation type has a so
a kind of
bias I mean yeah I mean bias is
so so different values in gr
programs you
think so you think the this bias is a
negative factor in term of fairness or
parities however I think this bias is
so useful or effective Public
Funding so you you think so my saying is
there so a kind of a
paradox so this bias by Foundation type
so can I think uh can complement
Democratic type approaches so I mean
Democratic approach is a democratic type
and quadratic funding type
I think
so so this
so um aot of a lot of different biases
so uh generating more more different
values more different values can
distribute distribute funds to more
different public GS I think
okay and in the past whole clima and
adour so say uh so rationality
rationality is a
so rational originally so rationality is
improving improving Society systems but
so um this rationality is uh so leading
to Lost
Humanities I think uh so this is a so a
kind of
paradox I
think so Democratic Democratic approach
is a a kind of so rationalities I think
so we should have a so different
approach who effective Public
Funding so not only quadratic funding or
so so using
DS so you can see the so my using
database scan here scan it and then yeah
please join us thank you
thank you so much shinya we received
many great questions during your talk so
let's start with the most upvoted one
did you have any findings on cost of
running grants for example internal hit
count Partnerships tooling by type of
Grants yeah so actually so so this so in
this
so yeah so like a running running grants
internal head count so
yeah and then so actually so I I don't
focusing on so so these topics so my so
especially so I'm focusing on so
decision making bodies yeah and then so
from now on so we have to analyze more
deeply so including so these
topics yeah okay thank you so much
Shenia unfortunately we are out of time
so I see many questions on the Mia Cat
app so if you would like to speak with
him after this please feel free to look
for him nearby the stage and I'll let's
put our hands together for
Shenia and our next talk will be
beginning in 1 to two minutes so feel
free to take the time to stand up do a
stretch or you know go to the washroom
really quickly if you need to and we'll
be back shortly thank you
[Music]
that's
for
[Music]
that's
welcome back every everyone so we are
going to kick things off again with a
lightning talk by Eugene lenthal who
works on governance at scroll and is
also the research director at metav and
during this talk he will be sharing his
insights from analyzing over 30 plus
grant web three Grant programs across
multiple chains um and he'll be talking
us through the challenges that were
faced by Grant operators the feedback
from some of the granes and some
possible solutions forward and since
this is a lightning talk please note
that we will still be using the mircat
app and not doing the throwing the
microphone box thing at stage four so
once the slides come up feel free to
scan the QR code to submit your
questions or you can already do so by
opening the Devcon passport app and then
scroll down um for this session scroll
down and click the live Q&A session
button so without further Ado let's put
our hands together for Eugene
[Music]
hello and good morning everyone I'm
Eugene lenthal I'm currently working on
governance at scroll and I'm a research
director at metago and today I'll talk
about some of the research that we've
been working on over the last two years
at metub in trying to also get a
qualitative understanding of the nature
of Grant programs in our space and so we
can better interface with Grant programs
Beyond web 3 as well so today I know we
don't have a lot of time so I'm going to
run through some quick context some
takeaways and kind of what I'm thinking
might be happening as we go into 2025
and
Beyond and so to start with some context
you know as part of this research as
mentioned we've covered a bunch of
different Grant programs this is just a
sampling of some of them uh so you'll
see it's you know a lot of the major
programs in the ethereum world as well
as as some uh other L1 ecosystems as
well so we're lucky that we're getting a
view well beyond uh any kind of single
set of programs and uh a lot of these
folks have very different priorities so
it is really interesting to capture that
and this year as well we expanded to not
just cover programs but we also got into
covering Grant tooling as well and as
you'll see here we aren't covering any
of the grant Stacks themselves we kind
of chose to focus on Tools around the
ecosystem that can make it possible for
Grant operators to perform better for
grantees to better understand how
they're performing relative to others
and so that we can all just have a
better sense of the data infrastructure
around the
space and so I wish I could just point
to a slide with a 100% confidence of
this is the amount of Grants shipped and
that's actually its own challenge is
because a lot of the data is fractured
and siloed not all programs are on chain
uh even the ones that are need a little
more sense making uh there aren't
perfect databases you know from the
programs that we've covered we've seen
over $1.2 billion doll USD go out uh we
haven't covered the formal rpgfan the
arbitrum and Tao and some of the other
very large programs out there uh so you
know there are multiple efforts
including open source Observer and DOW
ip5 from metago and dowar where we are
trying to improve this landscape so I
hope at Devcon 8 wherever we'll be in
the world whether me sha or anyone else
working on these problems someone will
be able to show off this wonderful new
database uh of clarified
information let's get into the actual
takeaways from studying these
programs one thing is on the mechanism
side we see that basically you know
prospective grants I'm giving you money
to go try a new thing and as of more
recently I'm putting in at least some
milestones in there that's kind of the
norm right now and in the last you know
6 to 12 months we've definitely seen
more and more experimentation I feel
like thanks to optimism the Retro
programs are definitely getting the more
uh the most attention but if anyone
caught Rafa from ZK sync presenting in
the gov Hub yesterday you saw like 15
different little experiments running
there are a lot of cool mechanisms being
created uh I think uh auke and his book
charted around 50 plus potential
mechanisms to utilize and we're going to
definitely see a lot more
experimentation in the coming months and
years also looking backwards recognizing
that we all want to better understand
our impact but what we actually mean by
impact and how we go about studying it
has been a huge Challenge and so at the
very least as a space there's that
recognition that we want to understand
the impact we don't feel like we really
understand the value of all the grants
shipped but we don't know how to do it
and related to that is also thinking
about well great you gave someone a
grant well is that actually enough to
help them succeed right a lot of
grantees actually need more than just
money to ensure that they're able to
accomplish their desired outcomes and
impact and as mentioned we're seeing
more Tooling in infra and as we start
thinking about the future you know just
the tools themselves are great but
they're not always enough we need more
documentation of what's Happening we
need more both qualitative and
quantitative analyses we want to see
more experiments happening and I
personally think in this next year we're
going to see a strong embracement of
plural of pluralistic Grant programs so
a single funding entity might have 5 to
10 separate programs running with
various levels of coordination between
these programs uh and you know I think
we will see kind of some data an
operational coordination across programs
but then letting each program kind of
run their own
thing in the context of impact and if
anyone had a chance to drop by the grant
Hub yesterday you know we had a whole
day focused on impact because again
there is this recognition and so some
groups are getting open to embracing
this program evaluation model where we
better understand what are the outcomes
right the Milestones you commit to what
outcomes do those produce and over time
how does that play out into impact but
we need more accountability of the grant
programs of the grantees and throughout
so definitely looking for more
Improvement and Adoption of some of
these tools and use cases uh with that
uh unfortunately the time is up for
today so I'll just shift over to
questions and if anyone wants to geek
out on Grant programs later please
always feel free to find
me thank you so much Eugene we see that
there are no questions yet so please
scan the QR code to submit your
questions um but while I have Eugene on
stage I'm really curious are there any
key takeaways from Grant programs run by
other chains that you think the grant
programs in the ethereum ecosystem can
really learn a lot from yeah I think the
first thing and this is an exclusive to
web 3 individually you know we have
already run some events where we've had
traditional foundations and regranting
nonprofits show up I think it's just the
recognition that impact measurement is
hard for organization that have been
doing this for a century so we shouldn't
feel bad that it's hard for us and
especially going back to one of the
questions that I saw shya got right a
lot of Grant programs might only have
one person running the entire program
full-time that's not enough to both
build really good systems build
relationships and figure out your impact
so if you actually are trying to deeply
commit to doing grants you have to be
willing to commit to the operational
overhead that inherently comes with
doing it well and I see the questions
pouring in now so we look at the first
upvoted one tips and tricks to find good
grants yeah so I think for the most part
the days of free money are over uh you
know for those who have been applying
you could just like show up vaguely
express interest and then magically
money appears in your wallet at this
point you definitely need to focus on
having a Clear Vision of what are you
trying to accomplish and what does that
mean for the ecosystem that you're
applying to don't focus on spray and
prey applying to every program you can
pick one maybe two or three that you
could deeply commit with and work with
and talk to them about well how does
this help you how can this be a two-way
relationship thank you so much Eugene
unfortunately that's all the time we
have so let's put our hands together for
him our next talk will begin in a couple
of moments so please stay seated
[Music]
for
all right we have are all ready for our
next talk which will feature Beth
McCarthy the program director of funding
the commons and josa Dilla who runs
bread chain Cooperative to talk about
how we can effectively um communicate
crypto narratives using the power of
memes so let's put our hands together
for Joshua and Beth
[Music]
hello good morning um yeah my name is
Joshua Davila I am here with my
collaborator Beth McCarthy and we're
here to talk about memes um our
presentation is
mcraft um narrative Dynamics in crypto
so what we want to talk about um of
course like coming to Devcon um you know
at least for me it's been a little bit
overwhelming it's been definitely a good
thing I love seeing all my friends um a
lot of my friends though I know through
the internet and of course being on the
internet the way that we often uh relate
to each other is through memes um and so
memes has been memes are basically very
fundamental to the creation of culture
in crypto um but kind of the thing that
we wanted to talk about on top of not
just saying that m are awesome and great
but also to like dig a bit deeper into
what they are and what kind of um Powers
they can project so we want to talk
about some uh analytical Frameworks to
help us understand and um have a deeper
understanding of memes their use and um
the power that they can have without us
necessarily knowing
it and so just very quickly to remind
ourselves the origin of memes it comes
actually from Richard Dawkins um I don't
know if you remember the time in the
2010s when everyone was having their
atheist phase that came from Richard
Dawkins book uh The God Delusion um but
before he was an atheist um or he might
have been atheist then I don't know he
was a biologist um who studied genetics
and what he was looking into um in the'
70s was kind of the ways in which
cultural information is spread through
imitation um and this is what he termed
memes so he used basically the the kind
of structure of the word Gene and
combined it with the Greek word MMA and
created memes in the
1970s um and so he conceived of this as
a parallel to biological genes in which
there is a kind of like natural
selection of which types of bits of
cultural information exists and which
ones survive um and he he refers to it
as a as a unit of cultural information I
think is interesting um and so what I
want to kind of like unpack a little bit
on that is that I think this this term
as a unit of cultural information is a
little bit
misleading Uh Oh wrong button um and
that I would actually argue that memes
are bundles there are like packages of
information with different layers of
meaning vocabulary actions in which put
all together the more you can pack
inside of a meme usually the more
powerful it is the more that it like
resonates with someone as some sort of
action meaning vocabulary that they use
that they resonate so memes are not
discrete objects they you can still use
the word unit but a unit of cultural
information is usually uh cultural
information being the Richer it is the
more powerful it is um is a combination
of all these different things and so um
the meme really hits if you can just get
all the information and um in just like
a single image for example at least when
we're talking about um the context of
internet memes um and so I think what's
also on top of this interesting to note
is that memes um have a kind of like uh
they can be like doubly as good if you
can also get very um uh what's the word
like meta about uh a particular topic um
and so we can see like you know in the
in the crypto world you know bitcoiners
be like I in it for the the technology
like this is something that has several
layers of meaning that like transcend
not just the image itself as being funny
because the guy is wearing jewelry but
it's also because I think it it um
unconsciously or subconsciously elicits
this kind of like character of a person
this archetype of a person that exists
in which they live inside of a system of
capitalism in which they need to project
a particular uh ideology in order to
justify their accumulation of capital um
and the rest of these are plenty of
different examples um I really like this
one my parents in their 20s I bet he'll
grow up to do great things me I trade
meme coins fulltime I think it kind of
you know elicits the the kind of like
right observation of like Financial
nihilism in the world and how people are
kind of trading meme coins fulltime to
make money um so it is like several
layers of different types of context and
meanings in which like make a meme
something that is that is quite powerful
um and so I'll leave it to to I believe
Beth to give us some analytical tools to
understand this a bit more um hi so uh
yeah and thinking through this um I
thought it was really interesting you
know as a person who's often responsible
for managing social media on Twitter and
being way too immersed in crypto Twitter
than is maybe good for my mental health
um I think it's really interesting to
really see how people are um so often
like frantically coalescing around the
specific ific moment is like this is the
time that we're going to make this thing
happen to go to the moon or now you know
if we um make enough mimetic Force then
we'll push you know push ourselves into
the next uh bull market Etc and so I
think it's really interesting to think
of um Walter Ban's concept of a yid site
um which is this idea of like um right
now is this particular moment that has
transformative potential within it and
exist and context of unfolding moments
um that we are all experiencing together
and shaping a shared reality and inner
subjectivity so um yeah finding uh our
friends in light Sage capitalism um as
we try to figure out how to navigate all
of this together and also want to wanted
to make the point that a lot of the
Frameworks that we're thinking about
here uh are drawing on Concepts from you
know 100 years ago when people were
originally thinking about these um kind
of structuralist terminologies but
history is repeating itself or rhyming
you know with um like greater Vigor all
the time so I think it's really
interesting to think and um in terms of
some of these patterns um yep how do you
do this the green
button uh yeah so just um to go a little
bit deeper in Concepts from Walter
Benjamin I might butcher uh these German
words for my German friends that I see
sitting in the audience um
butar um uh versus ER libn is uh two um
ways of categorizing experience that I
think are super useful for thinking
about um what is it that we are
experiencing together through these
mimetic structures that um yeah that
we're co-creating basically so my
understanding of it is that um is uh the
kind of tacit knowledge lived experience
that you have whether you
um you know a node validator yourself
deeply involved in um you know coding
infrastructure deeply involved in doing
the work that I do in terms of setting
up um events um and doing you know
Community weaving across the space uh
the knowledge that you come to
understand through gossip networks and
through um just seeing patterns uh
repeating over time versus um the uh air
lebes which is more the experience that
you have from you know reading through
crypto Twitter um hearing about um you
know stuff that is happening on the news
is it filters a perception of what's
going on in crypto or you know just
watching the markets and not thinking
about the greater depths that's
happening underneath but I think that in
our space especially and you know at
this particular moment in space and time
that we're at at Devcon it's really
interesting to think about the
relationship between these two things
because in order to have the full
context of the lived experience um and
gain that tastic knowledge in a deep and
U meaningful way then you also you know
need to have this more surface level
noise that you're navigating to get the
full picture so I think that the way
that um mimetic uh forces work in our
space is really interesting in looping
these two together and just to give some
examples of what I mean by that um I
think uh starter packs for example are
mimetic um you know mimetic form that um
where you know you look at this or and
it's like um you know I maybe you know
either deeply understand what each of
these things are and it's hilarious or
don't understand what they are but then
you start to understand that they move
together in um you know a conceptual uh
bundle as Josh was saying and so I think
um memes uh ability as an art form to
link um Concepts and create uh an
aesthetic um container is super
interesting um um similarly um in terms
of what we are saying about memes that
um you know form on top of each other
with these levels of meaning um I found
this in my screenshots yesterday and I
was like that is very true I'm like it's
interesting you know to understand what
this is saying you have to understand
the meme in the first place understand
the uh structures behind tarot and then
also this idea of like a um a cyclical
uh linear bit cyclical flow through
ordered information that is Con
contained not only in the reactions that
are happening in that Meme but also what
a Tarot spread might look like there so
and I think you know this idea of
information being conveyed in a spread
obviously you know applies to uh looking
at markets Etc as well um and Josh can
talk about this one yes I just wanted to
when we were discussing this give a a
really practical example of how this
manifest itself in crypto in which then
we begin to identify as a part of crypto
culture and I think the one of the like
easiest ones or the first ones that a
lot of people get exposed to is this
concept of hodling the holding holding
your crypto um which of course has its
own history I won't get into but um the
way that it happens is that you know you
buy crypto uh you hold it uh you read
about holding um of course crypto is
very volatile so the market is going up
and down when it goes down you begin to
like oh my gosh should I sell should I
sell you don't sell you keep it you
huddle and then you are reminded that
you huddled when the market uh is down
because you go to crypto um forums and
whatever else you're like oh I huddled I
took part in crypto culture and now I
can identify very quickly with other
people in crypto culture the the
feedback loop is quite short um and so
this short feedback loop is what then
hooks you inside of crypto culture and
now you are a crypto bro welcome yeah
and to lead into our next point there
also the um the power of you know naming
a particular particular Behavior so you
know before it's like okay well I'm
choosing not to sell my coins but then
as you become deeper embedded in the
ecosystem you learn there was a name for
what I did it's hodling and that makes
me a hodler um so and the last example
that I wanted to give I um thought that
it was really interesting to see um this
concept of finite and infinite games you
know a big crowd-pleaser in general in
our space but I feel like it is getting
brought up more and more frequently in
this Con uh this conference in
particular which I think is really
fantastic as a way for framing um the
World building that we do together and
capturing the evolving landscape so um
uh like yesterday I was attending a talk
where um I had directly brought it up
and I was really happy to hear that that
was a um explicit thought process behind
the concept of the infinite Garden that
we are all cultivating um so uh leading
into that it was a nerd point that I
liked um that um it's a great way of
framing as well of VI canin's language
game so as we were just talking about
with these different um ways of framing
um uh construction of identity
construction of behavior understanding
of the System Dynamics that you're
operating in and um the narratives that
uh we're constructing through how we um
convey information through words and
images um I just you know I think this
is really interesting these are some of
you know the examples that he gave um um
whether we're using language to report
an event um you know uh pretend to do
something switch between languages all
of these different ways that we um
engage with our world as mediated by
language are um ways that we are
constructing a reality and also that
we're conveying information between one
another in a way that creates uh inner
subjectivity and shared perception um so
uh yeah so kind of my first point uh
with I guess how that leads into how we
can think about how we are um operating
in a meme apparatus uh the rules
constraints and outcomes of language
games are continually evolving in a
feedback loop of shaping and being
shaped by cultural norms and behaviors
of their players um and talk so yeah so
some of the um memes that we all know
and maybe love um I think going a little
bit chronologically on the evolution of
memes a little bit uh it first starts
off you know being entangled in crypto
culture um in which we have this early
proliferation of memes about taking an
action related to market dynamics right
we we uh we huddle is the the one uh
example that I gave earlier but also
sometimes we get wrecked um sometimes
you know we have Diamond hands or we
have paper hands because we sold we see
the the the movement of the market and
prices go to the Moon um or we get uh uh
you know rug pulled with this not your
keys not your crypto I think is
something that is uh also another kind
of related to tcid experience of holding
your keys in crypto or being on a
centralized exchange and being warned
about it um digital gold being a type of
invest investment narrative um this is
kind of like where where it starts um
and these memes themselves uh in total
may move capital in a particular
direction but it's kind of like broadly
in crypto and it's related to like the
actions that you are taking in response
to market dynamics but I think what's
been interesting to kind of see is that
with the introduction of ethereum is
that now um the memes have become much
more sophisticated right we've had this
Cambrian explosion of different uh
mechanisms that are now available to us
all these Financial Primitives which
have elicited immense flows of capital
into specific projects and applications
so um you know infam one was 33 um where
people just kind of let's all
collaborate together into a Ponzi scheme
um or wagy retrop pgf quadratic funding
all of these different terms are used to
solicit investment or movement of
capital into a particular place um so
it's not only whereas hodling and
getting wrecked and going to the moon
was about like crypto broadly now we're
getting like we are turning in on
ourselves and creating this Loop
concentric Loop inside to where we are
now directing Capital within the crypto
ecosystem in various places based on the
movement of memes and um and their
proliferation and now we have reached in
the recent kind of um events in the
United States with the election to the
point where memes are being uh used by
people with a lot of influence like Elon
Musk um and so that these flows of
capital are capitalizing on their
Investments of taking part in meme
culture like uh uh Elon Musk did in
order to influence government policy
directly so Elon Musk simply talked
about Doge over and over again over the
years in order to in ingratiate himself
over time and through his power and
influence and um having so many
followers and having so much money and
owning Twitter he was able to become a
part of the meme to the point to where
he can now post about the department of
government efficiency or Doge as a way
to probably my guess is is bring forth a
um a lot of cuts into government
programs and who knows what else is
going to come out of that um but so now
he is we have this situation where big
capital is very much a part of the of
meme creation and meme spread and the uh
spread of narrative and this is
something that we should all take into
account and and and be aware
of um and yeah that gets into uh the
final point that uh you know thinking
about the flow of um these different um
mtic Frameworks and how they veryy
directly impact human behavior Market
behavior um those behaviors then have
impact on the client uh on the the
climate and uh all you know all of our
ability in the space to have stable work
and all of these uh effects that happen
and so I think it's really important in
our space to think about uh explicitly
how to memes harness identity inner
subjectivity and ideology to create
reinforce and reproduce dynamics of
power and
control um so just you know to bring up
to um white guys from 50 years ago um
then uh I think it's really useful to
think about um From fuko's perspective
this um control that is uh is mediated
through sociey based on access to
knowledge and this um feedback loop
between uh having greater knowledge you
know information asymmetry by Design
understanding uh a deeper awareness of
patterns that are happening um and very
actively directing the discourse um so
that certain um certain Concepts gain
power and start uh directing Capital as
Josh was mentioned and also changing
Behavior at scale and I think it's also
really important to remember in our
space which uh narratives are being
pushed and for who and why so for
example we if everyone is ascribing to
this ideology around
decentralization um thinking critically
about is this something that is being
used for an extractive purpose even
though it's something that on a surface
level we are all um agreeing with in a
friendly way and that gets to uh my
final point about
in web 3 or in crypto we are often uh
reconstructing and reproducing in our
emergent way um existing um methods of
control through um you know apparatuses
of the state and of capital um that
maybe you know as I've heard a lot in
different people's talks that they maybe
left you know the traditional world to
escape these things or recreate them in
their own image and I think it's really
important to think about what are the
ideological auses that we are
reproducing so our final point is to
meme safely be aware of information
asymmetry be aware of what um flows of
power and control you are participating
in and also send us some dank memes if
you see any uh and if you want to
mention our last point oh yeah and then
if you like if you like the things that
we've said in our words we have a lot
more words um we started a Sci-Fi called
catabasis Where We Are explor exploring
some of the some of the common themes in
the crypto world so yeah thank you and
there's a QR code in case you want to in
case you want to go look it up
now thank
you all right thank you so much Beth and
Joshua we have had a few questions come
in during your talk so let's start with
the first one besides being perennially
online on crypto Twitter how do you stay
on top of crypto memes
do you want to do
that um so yeah I mean I definitely
recommend pacing yourself if you're
going to be parentally online uh on
crypto Twitter because it can it can
take a toll on your mental health and
your soul but um I think for me it's
mainly about kind of the the larger
Point here is by having context about
the kind of like larger Trends and
things that are happening within the
economy I think it gives a better ins
ight into what memes are being pushed
and why they're being pushed and trying
to understand like who are the the main
players in pushing that Meme so it's not
I don't think it's just about staying on
top of memes but it's about staying on
top of like where are the expectations
of the flow of capital in order to
understand like is this a meme that I
should take part in or is this a meme
that is simply actually reinforcing my
subjugation to um various forces so i'
say
oh okay um so I think with regards to j
z i mean for me the um yeah as an elder
in relation to gen z uh I like my
perception of you guys or them is that
um folks that are entering the workforce
for the first time and starting to
mature or going through you know their
version of when we were like doggos and
BuzzFeed
and like you know how like what are the
ways in which you dissociate and which
are the ways that you choose to process
existing uh under capitalism so I would
say I like the jenzy um like absurdism
that is coming through things I'm a bit
concerned about like how a lot of people
are embracing um uh yeah Andrew Tate
type stuff and how that is proliferating
among that generation and it's something
I'm curious to understand more about so
if you have some Alpha leaks about why
Jin Z are turning into uh Trad Folks at
a high rate please let me know um yeah
maybe I would just warn against like
being um naively optimistic about uh
going into the workforce I would say um
and trying to have a larger view of the
movement of capital so that you can
protect yourself in the long term um
from like what is inevitably going to
come in a market is that there is going
to be a downturn there will be a bare
Market um and so yeah just to be aware
of those things all right the next
question is do you own any meme coins
but I think maybe more importantly what
we can also talk about is what are your
thoughts on Meme coins especially in
relation to everything that you've
discussed maybe I can take that one so I
mean um not a financial advisor I have a
I think I have a very small investment
in mem coins just because it's it's it's
a way to help me keep track of that
um but yeah and we didn't we wanted to
add meme coins into the presentation but
it became it was starting to get a
little bit too long but um I think when
it comes to meme coins for me what is
even more like crazy about them is that
they are they're not just meme coins
they are like financialized memes they
are memes in which like flows of capital
are moving in and out based on the
appearance of memes maybe in the media
or elsewhere so and I think this has
been quite fun fundamental to I think
the recent the you know the the
accumulation of power and capital by
Elon Musk lately um and in the previous
years um and also now I think that that
strategy is proliferating throughout I
think what people are I think
underestimating about Elon Musk and how
he's been able to um basically take hold
of the narrative through his not just
purchases of Twitter but also just
having a big account and just simply
being um yeah doing more or less
whatever he wants is that he is able to
not only make money for himself but make
money for his acolytes or make money for
the people who follow him is that if you
are someone who simply follows Elon Musk
and just like follows what he says and
like following his mention of Doge and
you buy uh doge coins whenever he
mentions Doge and then you make money
off of it then you're going to love the
guy you're going to follow him into
battle because he is the guy that like
made you rich or he's a guy who is like
making you money um when you're broke so
yeah okay thank you so much Joshua and
Beth let's put our hands together for
them our next talk will begin in a
couple of minutes so please stay seated
and do you have any questions for our
next speaker you can actually submit
them via mirat on the Devcon passport
app even before the talk begins so yeah
we'll start shortly
[Music]
if you like to like a to
to
[Music]
for
well welcome back everyone I see a
couple of people in the back seats if
you want you know there are plenty of
seats in front that you can move forward
too so our next talk is going to be by
Dr Nick who is the CEO of factory labs
and he'll be talking us through how we
can coordinate an epistemic Revolution
using Dows and ethereum and remember to
open the Devcon passport app to submit
your questions during the talk or you
can wait until the slides are on and
scan the QR code so let's welcome Dr
[Music]
Nick morning everyone uh bit quieter
after RAV isn't it um I hope you've had
a lovely week um I've had a wild time
and I thought I would take this moment
to talk about some of the bigger ideas
in crypto um I got very excited about
this industry about sort of seven eight
years ago for for a few things and I
thought it' be interesting to sort of
revisit some of the the the sort of
really interesting ideas part of which
is I think it can coordinate an
epistemic Revolution I'm going to tell
you what I think that means so I'll dig
into what um epistemology is and and
kind of um what I mean by the title and
then I'm going to jump into like
prediction markets and info Finance
some mechanisms for markets some
mechanisms for our minds uh and discuss
a little bit about the future of
intelligence so I think we're in a
moment of epistemic Crisis and by that I
mean I think people are losing their
minds um I think people are um starting
to lose grip of reality and I think
we're going to start to see this effect
manifest um over the next few years um
and what I think is happening is there
are kind of epistemology is being
corrupted now epistemology is
essentially like a uh a lens that you
put over the world that views that that
shapes and biases your reality so you
have a concept of reality and then your
epistemology is what you consider truth
within it um so you can consider this
it's like youve put on a you know when
you put on share and it changes the
world that's what your epistemology is
like that but it's the kind of the one
of these has anyone seen they live
it's a brilliant film it's a banger
watch it uh 1980s John Carpenter film uh
and basically uh it's a story about this
guy who kind of uncovers a plot uh and
the plot is like these people are trying
to distribute these glasses when you put
them on it unveils the truth uh and he
realizes that everyone is being
brainwashed uh and it turns out there's
kind of like these ghoulish aliens have
taken over and secretly in control of
everything um and interestingly this is
kind of what people think is happening
now people are collapsing their
epistemology to a reality where there's
like a bad guy um the world is not that
simple right but people want you to
believe there's a bad guy and the bad
guy that they want you to believe right
and that's why truth is under
attack um and I think this is like a
critically important moment
where
um the kind of tools that we're looking
at are just literally brainwashing our
our minds right we are being brainwashed
I know enough about algorithms and
social networks and mechanisms to know
this is true right um we have being
brainwashed every day I don't know how
anyone looks at Tik Tok for longer than
like 10 minutes it's insane uh but these
algorithms are like changing our minds
and they do that because we are kind of
like we are like we are socially
constructed like I used to work in
learning theory for a lot of the time
and um this was a big eye opener for me
in terms of like how we learn right we
used to think that you would just learn
by just being told stuff uh and it turns
out that the best way to learn is to
learn together right we swap mimetic
units we swap memes to each other that
we incorporate into our world viw people
can literally change your entire view of
the world with a with a sentence right
so we learn from each other and that's
happening all the time um and
increasingly in the modern world the
kind of delug and the information
complex that we're kind of under um is
making us sad and upset and is really
wrecking our heads in uh and I think
this is a big problem um the feeds of
the new Battleground um these two guys
have kind of used these things um to
their own gain in in numerous ways uh
and we are in a world where we're about
to take the breaks off um a lot of the
sort of information World Donald Trump's
talking about like making it illegal to
do moderation basically uh on social
media networks uh and this is a big
problem right so you've probably noticed
that X has just turned into a complete
like hole over the last like year
because they've just taken the brakes
off right and it's just like top grifter
uh every day on the feed uh and the most
kind of like um dopamine inducing
craziness um and the problem is it's
going to get worse uh and it's going to
get worse because of
AI um we now have basically set up a
pipeline of truth that's served up by an
API um someone asked Rachel rosol
yesterday
um like what she thought of AI and she
said it she thought it was like a demon
that's been Unleashed by leeching on our
uh on our data that's been scraped from
us and she's right um and like the the
reality of it is this thing has been
basically just like the whole history of
human language but in between it there's
a policy filter it's a new epistemology
for the world.org
right um this is a A system that is
filtering our reality and we're
Outsourcing Our Truth to an oligopoly
and they're Waring with each other for
us right to shape
reality so how do we coordinate an
epistemic Revolution where we sort of
create a new lens on the world that is
closer to the truth um and to do that we
need new sources of Truth we need um new
information to look at the world that's
more objective more empirical more
evidence-based more real um uh soort now
the technical bit right um
um prediction markets are part of the
answer these have got very hyped
recently I sort of um been working on
these problems for about 10 years but I
joined crypto fulltime four years ago to
build a prediction Market except it
wasn't really a prediction Market it was
a little bit different um but the
reality of it is there's a lot of work
to do we've got a little with the hype
cycle is in full effect or just was
because of prediction markets but
they're very incomplete mechanisms in my
mind um the oracles are very optimistic
ISC um and yeah like really optimistic
and the reality of it is prediction
markets put a bounty on the generation
of new information and if we get this
right then there's a large enough market
um that the oracles are created for that
market that actually have to research
which reality we are in um so there's a
lot of work to do on the oracles um we
are we need to get better at curating
predictors like
plutocratic um um approaches to
prediction markets is like the one coin
one vote of dows um there are better
ways for doing prediction markets we
need to create out who are the good
predictors uh Crowds Are Not wise but
there is wide people in them you need to
find them um we need to get better at
asking questions we've had one big
prediction Market because of one
question that was made for us um and you
know they died four years ago because
that was the only question that anyone
that was found that was interested in
this Paradigm um so we need to get
better at asking the questions and we
need to worry about incentive
compatibility and this is a kind of game
theoretic idea where there's like is is
everyone revealing their true
preferences to the market via the
incentives and actually there's people
in that game like market makers and Bots
and airdrop Farmers that are messing
with the signal um and we need to worry
about the Dark Side of prediction
markets some of these things have pretty
dodgy and weird outcomes that uh you
should be worried about um and we need
to find ways of stopping that from
happening and liquidity is the major
limit ation right we had one massive
liquid prediction Market this happened
four years ago and then it went dead
again right and that was because you
need a certain amount of liquidity in
the market to get out what you need so I
think info Finance might be the answer
and what's interesting about this is
vitalic is basically exploded the
concept of prediction markets created a
new idea called info finance and
underneath it there's a whole design
space of things that you can use
incentives for generating new
information um I designed one of these
about four years ago um little one of
the first mechanisms I'm going to show
you um essentially you mint an ID uh the
reality of it is there are many
realities in front of us right a lot of
prediction markets essentially have this
binary Choice um so instead of voting
with who's got the most money this is
who gets an identity you can express a
preference across a list of realities in
this case a bunch of Market assets um so
you quadratically vote on these sort
your preference and you go into a kind
of um
like competition with other people so
every identity essentially votes on what
they think is going to happen in the
next day uh we use market prices because
that's what we actually have oracles for
uh and then we find out who the winner
is um and essentially what you get here
is a kind of history of uh everyone's
predictions over time uh what we built
here is a permission list protocol if
everyone anyone wants to hack on this at
like eth Global join this group or just
contact me after um but Essen what we've
got here is a system where we know
exactly who made good predictions over
time on chain um and now anyone can
interpret that data and find out who the
good predictors are so the next sort of
wave of of prediction Market mechanisms
need to go beyond Market mechanisms
right because they're not that incentive
compatible we all know the amount of
dodgy stuff that happens in amm there's
me there's slippage there's all of these
mad things uh that are impacting the
collective intelligence in the system uh
we need to start thinking about
reputation systems to find out who the
good predictors are um and we need to
incorporate like prediction histories uh
and and think about sequentialized
prediction markets there might be an
absolute genius in that poly Market uh
Market who knew what was going to happen
kind of like there was one guy who
literally went out and did on the ground
ethnographic research and put $4 million
on it and made tons of money right
that's the guy you want in your next
prediction market and you want to
amplify their signal right there might
be people that smart who don't have $4
million to ape into like Trump coins
right so how do you find them um also
we've got like AI as players in the game
right another vitalism but this is
definitely going to happen we're going
to get AIS to play in the game and look
at how everyone else plays and aggregate
the intelligence across the market and
be a player themselves uh importantly we
need to validate this stuff
scientifically um because people are
already thinking well like poly Market
is truth now um and in fact it got one
thing sort of right
um and there is things to it but like we
are far from proving that these and No
One Believes In collective intelligence
more than me but we need to empirically
prove these things as as as as real and
valid and not get too overhyped about
them uh and we need better articles and
better tokens um here's a less talked
about prediction Market Geo bodden
token um now is this a
rug or did it predict brion's
resignation like months in advance um
the reality is we don't know um because
most meme coins are like bad memes
generally uh and like nearly all rugs um
but they could be prediction markets
right if the meme of Biden was actually
a true meme of it and not Geo bodden
token and its market price was reflected
to what was happening in the relevance
of Joe Biden over time maybe it would
contain information that would be super
useful so actually we need like an
infinite Garden of these
mechanisms um which yes this is becoming
a kind of like Zeitgeist thing right I
believe in infinite games and what we
need is many many new mechanisms all
trying to tackle these problems uh but
to get to that we need to completely fix
the market structure now I don't think
I've got time to do this because I need
to talk about decentralized AI um but
basically we've got a whole load of
problems in the market structure we need
to stop thinking of tokens as Equity we
need to find a line Capital uh and
frankly the way the market is structured
at the moment keeps out not just an
infinite Garden of mechanisms but any
mechanisms we don't have any apps not we
had one app that's done well right so
the market structure is completely
broken this has annoyed me so much um
that I'm trying to basically like smash
this to bits with a bunch of like tools
for like opening up um the market
structure I there's no reason to me why
projects can't be launched completely
onchain all the way through so
completely decentralized Capital
formation all all the way through to
token launching and like not touching
the real world in any way I don't see
why that can't happen um this is a bunch
of mechanisms uh that I made for these
things this one's quite fun um and that
one um but yeah I'm going to S on but if
you're interested in like mechanisms and
how to like break uh apart this kind of
like Market structure uh join us in that
group uh I'll be going through kind of a
range of mechanisms for how we can do
this
stuff um now I've got about five six
minutes to to talk about AI uh this is
something I believe knowledge is the
most important commodity on the
planet um and the sort of project that
I'm interested in working on next um is
called fact um and I'm interested in
Building Systems about the deliberation
of Truth um and how we might go about
doing that so the mechanism I mentioned
earlier um is a slightly more broader
mechanism consider a kind of core
primitive in in my sort of design space
and essentially I call it semantic
ballot voting essentially you have like
a list of tags anyone can sit uh put a
tag that's a meme it's a uh unit of
meaning it's an ontology um it's it's
whatever you want it to be could be a
proposal it goes into a list hence a
ballot and then you vote on it to sort
it by
preference um and then essentially that
allows you to aggregate the preference
of meaning across many participants
um but the interesting thing is is if
you give those people an AI now to now
talk about those hashtags you generate a
really complex data set which is
actually a kind of semantic graph and
the mind of a da um this is like
Wikipedia for AIS right it's a complete
mess no human could be able to read it
but it's absolutely lovely for
llms um so now if you just imagine a da
um like a good one uh nice and simple uh
a community of people um it's token
gated you can only see what's inside if
you're in it um it's Sovereign it's
decentralized um it's social and
consensus driven um it's a community of
people and they're all equipped with
tools to govern and AI many of the tools
I was just talking about uh and each
other right so they are basically in a
group and they're governing a model
together so not one that Sam's governing
one that that group is governing on a
topic um and in this group um those
people are basically just chatting
they're curating they're governing and
all of that is their data they own it
they control it uh and they can monetize
it if they want but essentially what
they what they can do is then leverage
an AI system to create something that's
a bit like a hybrid of like Reddit and
Community notes right but in that
specific topic so mimetically anchored
in an ontology uh and what they're
engaging is is a kind of like what I
call semantic governance which is um
essentially debating
meaning um so I think this is
potentially a new kind of name space uh
where we kind of build this kind of like
conceptual playground where people can
connect it with other bits of meaning
and you create a network uh so each of
like these semantic nodes represents a
unit of meaning
um and then we can use this is this
actually a great governance mechanisms
for Dows by the way um because Dows
typically have this perfect open scope
decision- making where anyone can make a
proposal about absolutely anything which
doesn't happen in
organizations uh organizations have a
scope and they bound their decision-
making to particular themes and
ontologies um and we don't right so what
we need to do is like semantically
anchor what it is we do and what we
don't do um and that will kind of help
us with Dows um I also think this is the
approach for um unifying expert systems
which is basically the one like super
creative thing in experts an AI system
has ever done is move 37 um in the game
of Go uh where Alpha go beats uh the
world's best go player it create played
in a way that no one has ever done
before and llms simply do not do that um
so what we need is to kind of unify
expert systems through these kind of
neuros symbolic
approaches um and you know I believe
doing Dows in practice right we do lots
of stuff you know I think there's like
Dow governance uh use cases emerging and
like protocol Dows and defi but it's
really time to start taking these to the
people um so we've been trying to like
onboard people in citizens assemblies uh
and give them access uh to a quadratic
voting app and getting them to create
these data sets and our goal is to
create um a agent for those people
called London voice and it's kind of a
digital representative of those
people um it's difficult like Real World
Adoption is hard my wonderful co-founder
Matt sent 50,000 invites to the people
of London to get them to a Citizens
assembly and we got 12
hits um it's really bloody difficult um
literally Flyers through their door with
an invite um 50,000 it's hard work but
we need to do it um so really what we
end up here is like a a a a a tag a
semantic tag an ontology London
what does London mean the people of
London decide what London means and they
create a data set uh this rather sci-fi
sounding semantic hypergraph um but
essentially what our goal is is to
create a voice uh for those people and I
think this kind of ontological
engineering is what going to make
alignment
legible um so using these kind of tools
you'll be able to find out who is
aligned with you and potentially this is
the way that we can do new kinds of
public goods funding um so where this
goes next is basically um you need a
governance system for this kind of stuff
there's some of those tags you probably
don't want on your network so this is a
kind of swarm of Agents so imagine a
swarm of Agents with a group of people
with each one a kind of Federated
structure uh that kind of governs that
Network and a sort of deliberative
council structure um which essentially
grows exponentially and this scales by
the Fibonacci sequence so you keep
adding these communities to sort of
decentralize the over arching governance
layer uh and what this gives us is
potentially factually accurate
Generations because you can uh root
queries across this network of experts
and synthesize queries generated by
genuinely independent Minds so what that
means is that every concept can have a
dow there will be thousands of dows a
day and every Dow will have an
agent um so really what I think we could
end up with is a kind of social network
of AI powered Dows where each of these
communities
um uh are are building their own AI so
what do we need we need more mechanisms
we need more Innovation we need good
token economies and we need to leverage
AI that we control and govern in our own
Dows uh and we need to do what we need
to do is build systems for planetary
scale decision making to help us get
find new spaces to figure out how the
world is working thank you very
[Applause]
much thank you so much Nick I see that
the intersection between Ai and web 3 is
a really hot topic because we've had so
many questions about it so let's start
with the first one what's the metal
layer risk or benefit of an AI model
guiding the scope of decision making
that's a very interesting question um
there is risks and benefits you're quite
right um so I think the benefits is that
we can build like like the models should
be designed by by The Taste and and
needs of that group right so we're
creating a kind of new epistemology for
that group a shared framework of reality
a way of looking at the world a way of
synthesizing information uh and that
pluralism that difference in opinion in
the way that data is rified to a group
of people is incredibly valuable and in
fact is the point uh the risks are is
those people might be mental right and
they might do some absolutely crazy
stuff that you just do wouldn't want
perfectly synthesized in an AI and like
the prediction Market things you need
the governance aspect on top of it MH
moving on to the next question how do
you think we can use AIS in a more
Collective way such that it protects us
from the dangers that centralized AI
will likely bring what could their
governance look like um again wonderful
question and and like this is exactly
what I want to be exploring probably for
like the next 10 years right at the
moment AI is a very sort of like um
unidirectional it's a onetoone
relationship uh We've yet to even crack
open the design space of what it looks
like for our group of people to leverage
and uh and and an AI and how they do
that is through governance it's like for
me it's the perfect use case for Dows
right it's a killer use case for Dows
and I think that um that is the question
precisely the question that we need to
explore and crack open um so really what
you need is these pluralistic decision
Mech mechanisms and lots of like
deliberative decision- making and
building data pipelines and then finding
ways for people to own that data and
rewarded by it the system I'm designing
I want to be able to give people to pay
people per the generation as their llm
is used we need to find ways instead of
just stealing people's data uh and
monetizing Humanity without their
consent we need to find ways of people
doing that yeah I really like that idea
of building the incentive structures
into make sure people are being paid for
the work that they are doing exactly
exactly all right is there a scaling
prerequisite for the AI models to work
does it work with just 12 people are
there any self- selection bias issues
really wonderful question these by the
way um actually you'd be surprised right
a lot of the feedback I've had with this
is people going oh you need like
billions of tokens for AIS to work not
the case at all actually you can can
actually get incredibly good outcomes
with like 12 people especially if you
like this is like one of the core things
right because what we've got is this
incredible like block and Deluge of of
data
uncurated BGE from the internet that is
what these bolt models are and they're
all like fil filling it up with like
we've got trillions of data points it's
absolutely brilliant and it's like all
garbage right and and like the reality
of it is if you have highly curated data
set that's structured in these kind of
like ways that the people have carefully
fine-tuned it you can use things like
rag which just brings out the data that
humans have curated for it so actually
what you get is this like hyp
specialization I think you can beat GPT
on topics like I asked you know when did
Biden resign for that goo Bowden thing
and it said Biden's still the President
right like the reality of these things
is that what we need is realtime Ai and
that's what you can get with 12 people
you can curate a topic and say What's
Happening Now basically and we have a
little bit of time for the final
question um so they were asking is the
data factually accurate or socially
accurate because consensus does not
necessarily equate the truth thank you
for these questions absolutely wonderful
all of them um the answer is is like
truth is a social consensus problem
right like it's a kind of a metastable
thing that means that when it can be
like Disturbed and we switch into a new
equilibrium like we used to think that
Earth was the center of the universe
right like facts are a social consensus
problem and what we need to be able to
see is what do people think the truth is
and be able to look at the deliberative
Providence all the way back and have
that be your judgment call on whether
it's truth or not all right thank you so
much Dr Nick let's give a round of
applause to him our next talk will be on
the Thailand Talent attraction programs
so all of you digital Nomads who've come
to Bangkok for Devcon and realize that
you love it here please stay tuned it
will be happening in a couple of minutes
put
[Music]
[Laughter]
for
[Music]
pap
f
C for
[Music]
for
e
[Music]
e e
for
[Music]
e
is
[Music]
oh
you
[Music]
m
for
[Laughter]
[Music]
oh e
e
[Music]
for
I pleasure to
[Music]
oriz
was
[Music]
welcome back everyone up next we have a
really exciting panel on building
resilient web 3 teams so for our
panelists we have Evan from disco we
have Olivia from moons song Labs Rachel
from uith and edcon and it will be
moderated by Bridget from moons song
Labs so before we introduce them on
stage remember to submit questions via
the Devcon passport app or or scan the
QR code um and submit your questions on
there so without further Ado let's
welcome them on stage with a round of
[Music]
applause hello hello how is everybody
doing today last day of Devcon we are
super excited to be here talking to you
about building resilient teams
navigating the web through ecosystem and
we have three incredible speakers today
um our first panelist we have Evan
McMullen she's a Visionary in the web 3
space with such a robust background in
both blockchain and Enterprise Tech
she's the co-founder of pado ID where
they're focusing on transforming identi
identity verification across digital and
real world environments and she was
previously the founder of disco. XYZ um
with leadership experience at Brookshire
hathway and consensus Evan has really
been at the Forefront of advancing
decentralized identity and Data
Solutions and fun fact Evan and I met
while we were students at Yale
University and here we are years later
together so um and our next guest we
have uh Rachel and Rachel's been working
in the blockchain space for years as a
Founder bestselling author and Global
public speaker she's really passionate
about sharing uh sharing knowledge and
building Community she has been very
active with the Bas and coinbase
ecosystems at founding onchain media
where she runs a podcast and Twitter
spaces and she's co-founded incentives
with per Labs with Mr migles on base
team uh and additionally she works with
the city of Berkeley uh to promote
blockchain use cases at a m Municipal
level and our final panelist Olivia
Smith is the COO of moonsong labs where
she directs operational strategy and
scales a company's impact and web
Innovation she was formerly the VP of
strategy at pure stake where she played
a key role in launching Moonbeam and she
also has a background in finance having
spent four years in trafi uh tradition
or prior to blockchain and she also
holds a joint JD MBA from Columbia
University so welcome to these panelists
um let's why don't we kick it off with
you know let's start simple to each of
you in a sentence what does resilience
mean
I think of resilience both in a in a
very sort of literal technical sense as
well as the human sense the ability to
withstand friction disruption to
maintain integrity and to maintain
process and success despite shifting
conditions around
you um when I think of resilience I
don't know I I was doing a Twitter space
with uh this MMA fighter who was talking
about you know getting knocked down
repeatedly over and over and I feel like
in our space we are really fighting this
good fight for the greater good and
after getting knocked down time and time
again I think resilience is you know the
ability to pick yourself back up and
realize okay we are working towards a
greater good and this is a fight worth
fighting so I think it's just getting up
you know uh and if you get knocked down
just get up and keep trying I feel like
that's that's resilience me I like that
image of just keep getting up um for me
it's like you know it's obviously
persistence but it's this like mental
fortitude I think when I think of it
it's like as simple as being able to
sustain so you can succeed and so it's
something that's consistent that's
always there that you have to keep
cultivating but as key to success so
looking at these definitions that you
all just provided how do you instill
these sort of core values of resilience
that you just defined within your teams
so the only thing that is certain about
the blockchain industry is that we can
guarantee uncertainty
um I'm sure that all of you here have
experienced various different swings of
Market Cycles introductions of new
political influences social influences
that change the Dynamics in which we
operate every day both from our you know
technical resilience and the challenges
of new Adoption or new capabilities or
even errors that we find along the way
as well as the human beings coordinating
these systems who need to be able to
accommodate themselves um at provado ID
in our practice we have an incredibly
diverse team our teammates you know
represent Nations across the world as
well as backgrounds that are incredibly
diverse from more traditional to pretty
degenerate um and it is through that
range of experiences and perspectives
that I think we find resiliency and
strength the opportunity to invite
points points of view that might not
occur to you in fact the invitation to
disagree rigorously and respectfully you
know raising one's voice because you
love your users is never a bad thing on
my team and so I think that through open
communication deep consideration for
what success looks like and a shared
understanding that the ground under us
will always shift these principles you
know this this way of being uh has been
working so far but of course as I say
with all Technologies and all processes
we will work for as long as this serves
us and we when we find something else we
will do that
instead mic drop
um yeah so I feel like what creates a
resilient team in my eyes is I don't
know I'm a big proponent of really
understanding your why and the purpose
behind what you're doing when you have a
strong enough why you figure out the how
and the teams that I've seen make the
most waves and make the most progress
they're tapped into uh this greater
Mission and greater purpose and they
just do it with such conviction like
Evan here you know just constantly
showing up and realizing okay what we're
doing is so important for the greater
good what we're doing is you know what
I'm doing is alignment purpose every day
and I think that excitement and that joy
to be a part of this uh positive change
globally uh I think is what the the is
behind the energy of
resilience yeah I agree and I think Evan
what you spoke to is this like
psychological safety in a work
environment being able to speak up being
able to have debate I think that's
crucial to a part of a culture I think
it's really comes down to people and
purpose and you talked about that of
like you have to have a greater good
that you're solving for and you have to
give people purpose for the work that
they do day in and day out and then I
think as I think a key part is you've
got to invest in people and people
investment is not just paying them I
think that's really key it's recognition
and appreciation and not just accepting
work but actually talking about all the
work they put into it talking about what
they learn from it and I think you know
to add to the psychological safety that
you mentioned Evan I think there's this
aspect that everything should be a
learning opportunity the long-term
purpose of what you're building for but
then you also want to have like a
personal purpose of I am developing
myself and as a leader you want to
invest in that bringing in outside
speakers investing in them learning
stuff that's not even just like related
to their direct work but cross cutting
across the company I think a lot of
times we get really focused and siloed
on our direct work and we don't realize
that people can learn a ton from whether
it's the marketing department The
Business Development Department there's
just a lot that we can take advantage of
so investing in people I think is the
key to resilience can I add one thing
there okay so another big component that
I was just thinking of and I feel like
Evan has always understood this but it's
also having fun uh I actually I went to
Doge day in Tokyo recently in Japan and
you know uh they were actually honoring
the life of a big uh Community member in
the Doge Community named Julia love and
a quote from her is if it's not fun it's
not sustainable so I feel like you know
we're seeing the rise of all these meme
communities and people are realizing
okay this is fun we can rally around
this and celebrate community so I feel
like fun is a big component too being
connected to a greater purpose and
having fun and Evans evans's always got
that she's got a disco ball on stage
with us right now had of fun um so you
know I think that a lot of things like
this with like resiliency there are sort
of these kind of higher level almost
like philosophical questions of how we
how we approach this and discussions
about this but if you were to like
measure resilience and look at metrics
as we're in a very metric driven
industry like what would you say are
some things that you could look at for
that burnout attrition uptime
transactions per second mic drop no but
like for real though you know when we
when we talk about sort of metrics like
it's a it's a challenging thing to try
to apply across the board because every
you know every team is different every
human experience is different but what I
can tell in terms of measuring the
health and resilience of our community
is that the number number of chairs in
this room far exceeds the number of
chairs in the room in 2018 in Prague at
Devcon when I first learned about the
work of my now co-founders the Iden 3
protocol the you know ecosystem around
us has scaled significantly such that
there are a lot of new faces and many
that remain but whether it's through you
know the the difficulty of the work that
we do the you know pressure of the
Dynamics and constantly changing
ecosystem it's a a challenging place for
everyone to build resilience for every
team to persist um and so through the
natural emergent progress of you know of
um ethereum I think it is organic that
not everything will stay the same uh and
in fact um the ability to adapt and
change and to jettison what no longer
serves us I think is part of what makes
that resilience possible uh I know I am
definitely guilty of hanging on to some
ideas for a little little too long even
when it was clear that they may no
longer be viable whether that's a
signature scheme or a you know
particular way like State channels I
thought that was going to happen turns
out we went with layer twos so you know
the ability to receive that new
information and iterate um I think is
also you know important in the ways that
we measure who's here and how it's
working so I I think team by team it's
going to be the metrics are going to be
individual to what the purpose is but I
think kind of a universal metric that we
can look at is how how long uh these
teams are lasting how long the
individuals are showing up how long
they're staying in the ring after all of
these Market Cycles going up and down uh
how long are they showing up people like
Evan people like these women on stage
today have been in this space for years
grinding and not stopping and to me that
is a key Benchmark of resilience it's
continuing to show up over the long term
seeing the bigger picture uh you know
during the the bare markets we lose so
many people right and I feel like that's
you know kind of the opposite of
resiliency these women up here see the
long-term vision of continue to show up
over the years and I think that's a
universal metric that we can look at
yeah I agree with both of those things I
think for me attrition seeing like if
you survive a bare Market obviously
those are tests of resilience but in
some ways those are like you've already
lost the battle right like you build
resilience actually in the bull it's
opposite of like building software in
the bear like this is the time to build
resilience because the bar Market tests
resilience um and I think when you have
lots of attrition you're already kind of
losing that um resilience battle for me
it's you know part of a key part of
developing resilience is developing with
your team your company's core values and
linking Behavior to that so when we talk
about how to measure resilience for me
it's one just the behavior of your team
on a day-to-day basis are you able in
your team meetings to call out how
people's actions are directly tied to
your values I think the other part of it
is ironically I think think you should
look at how many failures you've had in
a risk-controlled environment and what's
happened from those failures because the
key part of resilience as you said is
like being able to get knocked down and
get back up and you don't want to have
it be that like it's when you have a
concussion and you can't get back up
right like you want it to be when it's a
risk controlled environment where
someone has been given ownership of
something they haven't done it quite
right but they're in an environment
event to what you said before that they
can learn from it they're not fired
right away and they can become more
resilient one thing that I I want to
note too like just in thinking about the
process of like how One cultivates
resilience as as you were noting in
practice I think the same is true for
you know the oifc hardening of our code
and smart contracts as well as the
processes that we have internally on our
teams right the reason that we trust
certain contracts the reason that we
trust certain projects is because of the
volume of capital that they have
supported over time the consistency of
their security um and that is you know
proven first through audits but then
really through volume and consistency
over time and I think the same is true
in our you know internal team practices
and even how we work with one another in
this composable ecosystem that demands
you know modular teams interface
constantly um you know defining the
processes that work getting a gut check
from the other parties involved whether
you know that's a audit for code or
whether feedback for your colleagues and
then over time you know repeating that
process adding more value that's
supported by it aify that social code as
it were so you sort of jumped slightly
into my my next question but you know I
think that when we talk about web 3
resilience is mentioned so often and so
you know how does web 3 vary in
resilience from other Industries and
obviously we've touched on some of these
topics but I wanted to just get a little
bit more specific here and see if
there's anything that you think you
missed on that of like what do you think
that you know web 3 can learn from you
know your experiences in the past from
other Industries and and what's
different and would you say that
resilience in web 3 is drastically
different from other
Industries y'all we need some boundaries
up in here um I definitely think the
demands of a 247 Market that is emergent
at every edge with with constant
communication with global time zones
like this industry is 247 not just the
markets which invites the most
spectacular opportunity for every minute
throughout the day to be um you know an
an act of continued progress and for the
permissionless nature of our ecosystem
to invite everyone on Earth and in space
with an internet connection to
contribute um but what this can look
like uh is very different than for more
formal structures where the Rel
relationship between you and your work
the relationship between you and your
colleagues has been oied in its own way
by different processes um I think the
Choose Your Own
Adventure uh you know uh way of being in
spaces such as Devcon and the ethereum
ecosystem offers the tyranny of
structurelessness where it is very easy
to forgo your own boundaries in service
of the chain I certainly know that I do
not get enough sleep and I'm not
hydrating enough this week in you know
in service of our work but um but that
type of constant opportunity for
engagement that 247 on ramp um and
opportunity part to participate is both
a gift and a curse um and I think that
the way we require resilience um to be
self-guided just like the shape of how
we participate in this ecosystem is
different than these more traditional
Informer structures where um there's a
much more
uh clear separation um in between what
one might call
work yeah U my answer my mic drop Again
by the way um yeah so I I would say you
know to Evan's point is this space is
always on right there's always messages
and telegram Discord uh things happening
around the world because we are a part
of this borderless Global onchain
community and um I think that's a very
beautiful thing I've also seen the other
side of the coin where it's it's very
easy to burn out I mean you should see
some some of our calendars up here like
uh they're pretty crazy because um I I
think that comes from the excitement and
the passion and the purpose behind what
we're doing it makes us want to show up
and and you know put 110% in because we
realize the significance of the work
that we're doing so I think something
that other Industries can learn and what
you know lessons I've learned working in
web 3 and in the onchain space is you
really have to master the art of time
management figuring out where your time
is best Set uh spent and really
mastering that because it's easy to get
sucked into like a ton of rabbit holes
CU our space is always on there's always
exciting things happening um but yeah
I'd say the other side of that the
positive side is that you know this is
like a a global celebration I feel like
so many people are excited about this
industry and you know we get to be at
events like Devcon and you know
conferences all the time so yeah I'd say
I I really love the excitement piece of
it but it's really important to master
your time in the space I agree with both
of those things I think for me and it's
we've talked about it is that web 3 you
have this much bigger mission that
you're that we're on and it we don't
really know what the end will look like
right and so it's there's a so much
untapped potential that we need to
harness and drive people and give people
that purpose but you know I also think
you know as you said like I started my
career off in Investment Banking I
actually probably work just as much um
it there's no creativity though I would
say probably better Bankers have more
creativity than I did but um I think
this industry you can be creative and
you can try to figure out what the best
way forward is and that really wonderful
and I think that allows for more
resilience because it gives you more
ownership of what you're doing um and
then you know I think there's some
things from my past that I would like to
see more in web 3 I think we can have
more structured cultures that promote
learning and teaching and mentorship you
know it's a very fractional environment
work environment but that doesn't mean
that it's not a core part that every
person contributing to a project part of
their job is to teach and that is a
really powerful thing to move our
industry forward um one other comment I
want to add like what other Industries
can learn from web 3 um one of the
things that initially attracted me was
the the concept of dows right like being
uh being in charge of my my day-to-day
work right having more freedom and
flexibility and ownership of my time I
think that's something that's always
been attractive to me but I do think we
need a blend of like structure but also
Freedom flexibility and sovereignty over
our time because that's one of the
things that initially attracted me to
the space so so you all just touched on
a lot of really really great things you
know I I want to jump back to the like
this industry needs boundaries um for a
second here and you know obviously you
guys are all leaders in this space and
we're talking about you know resilience
and how you instill it in teams how do
you approach it you know obviously we
have we have the personal we have the
teams and then we have the larger you
know web three industry what would you
say like as a leader how do you take
your personal lessons and share that
with your teams help build in like a
resiliency practice within your your
teams or communities mission team
individual in that
order um you know I I know there are a
lot of different approaches and styles
to leadership I do not want you to bring
your whole self to work I want you I do
not want to build a family in the office
we are a band of Assassins we came here
to slay we've got some we've got some
objectives to achieve and whatever you
want to do on the weekends when you're
done go forth but I will still be online
so you know to that and I guess you know
what I really mean by that is having you
know a shared purpose shared ideas
shared objectives a shared Way Forward
means that whatever you know you showing
up as an individual looks like can be
part of that that you know range of of
you know individual interest and
expression and capability in service of
your shared Focus as a team in service
of your shared Mission means that anyone
can take a slice that suits them well
that is is you know that is focused on
their strengths and their areas of
interest um and I think prioritizing our
work prioritizing our team and then
thinking about ourselves you know as
individuals separately from why why we
come to the table and how we come to the
table together you know I think that can
and should mirror ways that we think
about the ethereum ecosystem as a whole
you know as ethereum we are mission team
individual and I hope that you know we
find Opportunities to practice I that in
our own ways as
well well I don't know how to follow
that I mean I feel like she really uh
covered everything there I I will say
there is a quote that stuck out to me
from someone that I know if any of you
know uh Jesse Pock the creator of base
chain uh you know one of the first
things I heard him say uh I I joined
this onchain summer uh kickoff event and
he said put the team over the individual
stay optimistic and remember put the
team over the individual and that is
something that stuck with me to evans's
point putting the mission and the team
before the individual is important and
of course operating in a Centric way
right Val valuing individuality but
always remembering you are working
towards a greater Mission and purpose I
think is
essential yeah I think you struck on
something that I think is really
important which is like always be
positive and I think a lot about you
know when thinking about resilience as a
leader it's this consistency and this
positivity and that's not to say that
you don't talk about the negative things
but I think the hard job of a leader is
that you have to frame the negative
things with a positive outlook and to
say okay this is what we're learning
from this this is this is where the
opportunity is because this happened um
I think being calm and collected is a
really good trait for resilience um and
I've heard the analogy used like you
have to save up the good energy from
positive news to use it when there's bad
news because it's way more important to
have that when there's bad news so you
kind of have to act like a dam in a
drought right like you let out water
when there's like a drought out and you
there's nothing sustaining your team um
and I think that part of leadership and
building resilience is that it can't
just be you building resilience you need
to coach you need to Mentor people so
that they can be resilient leaders for
their team and part of that again is
like giving them Authority I don't know
Evan like I do agree put the team before
the individual but I think there's still
needs to be meaningful interactions and
a support network that allows you to be
resilient and I think it's you can find
that support through a mission but
everyone is different and some people
need to be able to share personal things
about their lives at work and and be
able to be known and I don't know if
that's necessarily a bad thing but
obviously team you know is the priority
and the mission of the
company so we've talked a lot about you
know resilience within teams and
individuals um but we also have other
teams that we're observing go through
the same things that we are um you know
I can kick it off to all of you but are
there any teams that you guys have seen
doing things with common denominators of
resilience and what that looks like
outside of your own
experiences shout out to the
l2s I feel like um you know in the in
the scaling road map of ethereum there
has been much uh much Evolution um and
much iteration um first you know side
chains alt l1's l2s rollup stat shared
sequencers all of these flavors all
working toward a more perfect union of
block space and applications and
services um so the you know just from a
a technical and team perspective um the
way these long standing infrastructure
substrates have evolved to accommodate
better developer experience to
accommodate different kinds of business
needs as we have Enterprise chains
entering the chat um I think that's
definitely you know something to to look
toward and as a sort of a snc for all of
our industry and the way that we
continue to evolve and iterate both you
know in the stack and in our
teams yeah well I I have to start out by
by just shouting out ethereum uh for
just doing doing all this and making it
to where we're at um you know the l2s
too have come a long way uh you know
shout out to the uh base and base team
for traveling around the world and
actually meeting with builders in person
I think that's a really incredible thing
like like Evan was was saying right
prioritizing uh the user right and the
individual that's uh within your
ecosystem I think they're really doing
that um and then there's other projects
like you know I I recently went out to
Tokyo to connect with the Doge Community
um the own the Doge team the team that
owns the Doge IP I think they're doing
really amazing things and you know the
the Doge IP has lasted for so long and
kind of kicked off this uh trend of of
all the memes that uh we have known to
love today so shout out to the Doge team
who prioritizes fun continuing to show
up and doing only good every day the Mr
migles team I've seen a lot of teams in
the space uh they're actually uh newer
right that came about during onchain
summer who have just you know uh really
done amazing things in in the short time
uh that that they've been in existence
so yeah shout out to all those
teams yeah I would say just generally
the team entrepreneurs and people
working in web 3 whose previous projects
didn't work and who didn't leave web 3
but started another one and stayed in
the industry I think like the specific
purpose of your company or project may
not be lasting but you believe in
something bigger and I think that's
that's really cool so there's one
specific part of this industry that I
really want to you know call out and and
chat about during this session is so a
lot of times you know we have
communities in this industry and they're
they're Builders they're developers so
we have you know your communities are
it's a community of developers and so
you have your your Dev rail teams that
are within your you know ecosystem or
teams reaching out to the builders um
you know what do we see within devell
and like their role within
resiliency so like in traditional
business you know you might hear phrases
like B to B business to business or B to
C and in crypto we have this this sort
of interesting phenomena of the B Tod
the business to developer where um so
many you know components tools pieces of
infrastructure rely on the um you know
adoption of either independent
developers and teams to drive traction
of of their tools um and so the way that
we speak to and engage these folks is a
little is a little different like I I
don't think we're going to see the KPMG
team at the bar chain Rave um so
understanding you know what it means to
engage your audience in different ways
is a little bit of a newly formed ground
um I think you know culturally we're
still all observing what it is to find
that type of footing um and I think the
the pressure that is put on the front
line of those you know rep in the code
um is immense to translate you know cap
highly technical capabilities to a
global audience you know devil is sort
of one part sales one part engineering
one part influencer and one part
therapist and a little bit of marketing
in there too oh yeah certainly and so um
the evolving demands of what that looks
like means that there is no longer a job
description for what developer relations
you know is in a singular sense um it's
been very cool to see the way that
different teams have um you know sort of
broken this practice out have uh
invested in you know materials and
experiences those sorts of things um but
at the end of the day these are also
still humans the human part of human
coordination um so there is a yeah I
think there is um an evolving
opportunity for the maturity of what we
call devrell um to be more closely
integrated with other parts of the
practice to um be able to provide
feedback I know internally on our team
for example our teammates who are
externally facing um provide structured
feedback to our product process such
that we can hear directly from folks who
we're building with how we want to
change and iterate prioritize new
Futures and Beyond um and so you know I
to at risk of sounding like a broken
record up here the you know the core I
think of of what you're asking about
again is communication and understanding
of the shared Mission the way that that
serves the team and then how the
individual fits in
sure um yeah I think you're totally
right like Devil basically has to wear
every hat they have to be product
marketing BD slightly engineering like
you name it operations um I have immense
amount of respect for anyone in devell
and actually in some ways to the point
of like reduce as an industry as a whole
in web 3 we need to reduce developer
friction and so we should all be wearing
some sort of devell hat or think of that
when we're doing our job um I think the
other thing yes they're on the for
they're on the for forine Forefront like
working really hard having to interact
with customers but the other aspect I
think that's hard with devr is that they
get kind of like an onslaught of issues
that they have to deal with but they're
not necessarily empowered within their
own companies to change to make change
right so like the aspect of product the
aspect of engineering or on the
marketing side they just have to relay
that and deal with the kind of um
complaints that are that they're getting
and so I think there's other ways that
we can think about how do we Empower
devr to be more crosscutting across an
organization so they actually can take
action to find solutions to the things
that customers are bringing rather than
just being kind of you know the
messengers I think that's really
interesting um you know I think we have
just in this industry there's so many
different Pockets that are all working
together again towards this greater
Vision um and you know r I kind of want
to have you touch a little bit more on
communities and what you think
communities can be doing for resilience
how they're interacting with all these
different facets and like what you've
seen in your experience there uh yeah
something I think is really important is
having some level of discourse with the
community right so if you're a project I
think something that's vital that we
that we all crave is to be a part of the
narrative to be a part of the discourse
and the discussion right doing Twitter
spaces I mean I I've done hundreds of
Twitter spaces I've done some with uh
with Evan before and I think you know
building spaces where you can Foster
that Community Connection right so that
you're not just working in a silo but
you hear from your community you hear
what they want and you actually know
them they're your friends they're people
that you show up with every day and
speak to I think that is so essential
for building Community uh building those
spaces where you can hear and have that
feedback loop um yeah I think that's
essential also please use your own
products like I I don't I I know that
this is almost like kind of crazy for me
to say out loud but it is challenging to
empathize with the members of your
community if you have not looked at the
screens they look at if you do not click
the buttons they click if you do not
force yourself to eat the friction they
have for breakfast every morning um and
so I think also one of the greatest ways
to show love and empathy to those
individuals is to join them on the Walk
of their user Journeys and to make that
a part of your everyday practice whether
that's you know on the product side
internally to your team whether that's
on you know the support side and the way
that you ask and answer questions or
whether that's you know you out with
your docs trying to start from scratch
taking them literally um so you know
there all of these conversations all of
these you know communication patterns
and showing up for each other is really
great but if we are not working from a
shared set of information it becomes
really tough to do absolutely I also
love how I'm like sitting here having a
next question for Evan and she's like
starting to teed up perfectly for me
it's almost like we've known each other
for decades um so I want to also talk
about resiliency in building products
and that was exactly for you when you
sort of teed it up when you started
talking about products how do you
experience in your experience like what
are the lessons that you've learned in
res your resilience in building products
and in different
products the extent to which you think
other people are excited about the
intricate nature of your Tech stack is
vastly
overrated um I think especially for
those of us who kind of came up in in
protocols um there is a culture that we
live in to celebrate you know technical
complexity and detail um and you know
some might even say that that's
bordering on nerd sniping um so you know
I I think about resilience in technical
products as a function of the operations
of the team but also the processes that
you know these sort of aify processes we
talked about earlier um specifically
very simple things you know the ability
to communicate regularly with those who
are using your product indeed you know
putting yourself in their shoes as we
discussed having a meaningful ongoing
communication with regards to those
changes or updates that might improve um
being prepared to receive new data for
the model and iterate like a good Agent
um but seriously though you know
obviously there are a lot of new
technologies new capabilities that are
introduced frequently and so um the
amount of self-awareness that teams
technical teams in this ecosystem need
to have is like off the charts compared
to centralized alternatives when you
build a modular stack you're never going
to know every character of code right of
all of the other elements on which you
rely unless you um unless you built the
hardware yourself and mind your own
minerals you're also trusting someone in
that you know in that stack as well um
this means that we need to trust the
people behind these other products this
means that we need open channels of
communication um whether it's you know
the way that our team at pado ID engages
with our homies a base or self problems
with our colleagues at ens or defines
collaborative ways forward with our
teammates over at consensus the way that
we build resilient products in a modular
ecosystem is that we talk to each other
frequently often rigorously honestly um
I think also the economic incentives in
this space can muddy that process can
make it weird there's a lot of political
tension in etherium you know I know that
that's not something we like to say out
loud but there is and so the less we
play into childish games of inclusion
exclusion omission of information and
bullying behind the scenes in the signal
chats and the more we put sunlight on
this as a disinfectant and speak
honestly with one another in the forums
I think that will be reflected in our
Tex Stacks as
well exactly well I think we're
definitely not done with the panel but
that definitely deserved some snaps at
least um you know I think one of the you
know when I'm looking at these panelists
up here and the the different
backgrounds that you all come from and
the sort of areas that you represent in
the industry it's really IND interesting
to have these varying perspectives and
you know I think the the next area that
I want to sort of move to and touch upon
is um obviously this industry is mostly
remote there are some companies that are
you know having or protocols that have
in-person things but when we have
everybody that's remote one we obviously
we come together for conferences like we
have here we have I think it's over like
12,000 attendees and over 950 side
events in addition to the main
conference there is this need for for
human interaction and I think that those
moments also give us resiliency um as an
ecosystem together but in in all of your
experiences from the you know the
different sides of the industry that you
come from how do you Foster you know
resiliency within your teams
specifically around this remote work or
or being isolated or only getting to see
people you know couple times a year um
running around in the chaos of
conferences yeah I can take that well
obviously the conferences are a big
piece you know having those
opportunities to come together and
connect and do events um also locally I
realize there's a lot you can do in your
local community so I actually I moved to
Berkeley and realized okay there's a lot
of people in the Bay Area that want to
connect that want to learn um you know
as far as my I I guess people in the
community that I work with I kind of go
out of my way to to find them to host
events together uh even virtu events
that's another way you know you can
connect with people around the world uh
you know I started a telegram group
called let's touch base shout out to our
let's touch base friends um and yeah
basically every day you know it's a
place where we can go and we have this
camaraderie we you know talk about you
know not not only working crypto but
like our personal goals too and you know
uh really just have this place where we
Foster connections and friendships um so
I think really taking advantage of those
virtual spaces is essential uh
especially if you're a team working uh
globally right uh having your chats
having your uh your uh Twitter space as
well and also I've become a big
proponent of creating video content as
well um you know showing my face showing
up on video talking and putting myself
out there um and and connecting with the
community virtually is something I've
started doing a lot more
of yeah I think it is a challenge you
know I think there's a lot of positives
of remote working I think for us it's
really that we're able to recruit an
incredibly diverse talent pool that we
wouldn't be able to recruit if we were
if we were tied to recruiting only in
like a physical location for our
physical office but I think there's a
lot that comes from just like
spontaneous collaboration when you're in
an office together and that's what we
really need to strive to achieve when
we're in this remote working environment
and I think the first thing is to talk
about it like to be honest about that
with your team of like there are
downsides let's tackle them and let's
invest in opportunities for you to
tackle them whether that's you know
cross company um you know Zoom like
online Meetings online events also
spending money to have inperson meetups
you know our company we do a retreat
twice a year um and we're you know I
think it's also kind of changing your
incentive scheme so that you look at how
much are people contributing to dealing
with this remote working and and finding
this cross collaboration so you know in
our company it's you know companywide
trivia on Tuesday about people and fun
facts about them and then there's
rewards at the end of a certain amount
of time about like who's winning trivia
I think there's they're corny but do
think that they matter that people need
to be you know see that leadership cares
about this and is trying to tackle
it I would say like so you know we are
sitting here in this room a function of
extraordinary privilege not everyone and
every team has the opportunity to hop on
a flight and join the traveling
intellectual circus at its next
stop and so it is outlandish that we
would assume the opportunity to be in
these extremely fortunate spaces though
is incredible spectacular that we are
here together um and I think that you
know if you have the the privilege and
opportunity to you know to come to the
Mountaintop and to visit Devcon of
course that is the ideal but you know to
your point remote experiences are also
incredibly compelling um so you know the
the privilege that we have to leverage
the content created at conferences like
Devon Devcon to share it among our teams
to create a common vocabulary of what
we've learned and how we learned about
it I think is you know one thing that's
always always been you know very
important to to me in my practice um one
thing that we've started doing at pado
ID is also every other Thursday we do
just an hour of like straight headlines
and updates feelings check-in on the
week's news on chain especially as it
pertains to our work um and that can of
course include very focused and you know
disciplined technical approaches to you
know papers and things that that have
been released of late but also can just
be a fun enjoyful time to show one
another daps that we like or new
interfaces that are cool or ask for help
because we've somehow you know wound
ourselves up into some like weird
experimental Quinn we don't know
how to get out of um but you know we can
recreate those moments of curiosity and
learning and openness um and I think
doing so you know by example asking for
help showing something that you've
learned inviting other people to do so
um is a simple way to start I think
those are all great so I have we have a
couple minutes before we're going to
open it up to questions and I sort of
wanted to end this this panel with you
know we've talked about a lot of topics
here a lot of different you know parts
of the industry are there any specific
tools that you guys have used either
personally or for your teams or like
best tips or tricks that if you had a
you know a minute sound bite that you
wanted to go off on that we we didn't
touch upon yet I wanted to kind of give
you guys the opportunity to to talk on
any of that so I was thinking about it
last night when I was at a dinner
probably 50 people I was looking around
the room all men of course and thinking
about um you know what it means to to to
welcome people who don't look like you
into a space where they are not
representing the majority what does it
mean to invite resiliency when the
diversity of the folks at the table is
pretty imbalanced um now I you know feel
incredibly fortunate in that um you know
I was first introduced to bitcoin like
2010 2011 by a young woman so I never
got the memo this wasn't for me um you
know just girl stuff crypto as you can
see here up on stage um so we real you
know confident in in This Way Forward
but a really cool tool that I want to
give a shout out to is called shifi um
it's a curriculum created by my close
friend former colleague Matt Maggie love
um that is used to introduce fundamental
concepts of Defi and crypto to all
audiences um today shifi is utilized by
teams like Fidelity teams like Ava as um
an introductory set of content for those
who are new to crypto um leveraging uh
you know examples that help both the
most you know technical among us as well
as those who may not not be as familiar
with these topics um and so I guess the
sort of tip of the spear there is you
know tools that are well suited to the
unique experiences of your teammates
exist discoverability is tough on chain
and in the game so um also just remember
one tool you always have or your DMs on
Twitter Min are open ask for
help and by the way she's serious I have
never met anybody that will answer more
questions and be there and show up for
people so take her up on
that yeah um well I think to what Evan
was saying I think prioritizing
inclusivity is so important in our space
uh you know tools like shifi and and you
know even boy club right prioritizing
the fun aspects having the parties where
we can all gather and you know connect
with other women in the space I think
that's invaluable um and for me you know
founding onchain media um doing onchain
media Collective uh what I've really uh
prioritized is looking for places where
I can actually mint my stuff onchain so
I'm a big proponent of Zora of Dracula
if anyone's familiar and I think that's
a really good feeling to not just like
put my Creations out there uh only
solely on YouTube or Twitter X um but
actually having that onchain element
right so uh you know we're perpetuating
the ethos of bringing the world on chain
so uh for me that feels really good and
yeah we cannot um underestimate the
importance of Education in the space too
the education Focus projects are
essential I think Shi is just knocked
out of the park uh W with their whole
curriculum so uh yeah education Focus
projects uh uh creating onchain media
for me has has been something I really
love and building more inclusive space
also RA are you minting with pods pods.
media no but I I want to connect them
fantastic Lucas shout out we love you in
your we love you
Lucas um I would add what's been most
helpful for me is having a great
co-founder who's kind of the opposite of
me and thinks about things in a
different way and compliments me and and
you know we have very different skill
sets so I think surrounding yourself
with people that compliment you I think
is really important because it's not you
can't do it alone and you need a team
around you that helps you in your
weaknesses and bolsters you in your
strengths really quick rigor is a love
language do not surround yourself all
day with people who only gas you up and
tell you how great you are if someone
cares deeply enough about your work to
offer a disagreement a critique or piece
of feedback that is a gift you say thank
you yes and I think I can't quite see
the clock here but I think 20 seconds
great so we I think we just finished off
on the the official time from the panel
and we are going to open it up to some
questions now um I think some of these
have been a little bit touched on but I
this is one so the first question um
which I think you all can see up there
is you know we touched on how do you
build community in a a remote team which
I know Olivia you touched on that um but
we didn't really touch on time zones and
differences with time zones so if you
guys have any additional answers on you
know building Community with with time
zones and remote stuff that you would
like to add so let's open it up to that
for the first
question you have so the the team that
you know we have the Good Fortune of
working with represents a global array
of individuals and therefore a broad
range of time zones um you know as with
all composable Stacks you have to choose
the attributes that you prefer and you
need to accommodate for the challenges
that they may
introduce there are tradeoffs in all
things as in our team composition and
that means if you want to have Global
voices at the table you're going to have
to get on Zoom at 2:00 in the morning
and you are going to have to accommodate
just as much as your colleagues will
have to accommodate you I think you know
the the sort of Waypoint here um that
you know that's really important to
remember are what are those moments of
human connection even if they are
happening at moments that are
inconvenient to your calendar those
things can occur async those things can
occur in you know moments of sharing and
learning and so devoting time and energy
to them is the only way you know there's
no perfect answer but practice makes
progress yeah and something I mentioned
earlier too is time management so time
management and mastering your calendar
are like essential skill sets in this
space you know especially if you're
working with a global team making sure
you're scheduling uh communicating with
your team and mastering time management
is absolutely like a needed thing if
you're working on a global
team I think you can work with a global
team but some time zones just don't work
like I think sustainably like I couldn't
get on a zoom every day at 2:30 in the
morning I think you have to be realistic
I think there's a certain amount of
hours and you have to it's you know you
have it's individual you have to decide
what's right for you but I think that
you do have to design a team with that
in mind I also think you have to look at
who works with whom and so like people
need a buddy who they work with so you
might have people that that are really
far away but you have two of them and
they collaborate together so you just
have to be mindful of it who are the
individuals what's their role and what
you know what will drive them
forward all right next question what's
the best way to encourage your team to
stay current and educated on the
state-of-the-art all right show of hands
how many of you have listened to a
crypto podcast in the last
month last year all right so it seems
like we've got pretty pretty good
consensus there I personally am a huge
fan of The Chopping Block if I were to
if I were to pick one um but there are
so many well-curated Publications um
that keep us up on the tea uh if you're
going to subscribe to a newsletter I
think milk road is a really outstanding
one and if you want some Savage memes
and excellent crypto content definitely
uh smash subscribe to the boys club
newsletter yes um something I would also
say is depending on what your purpose
and your mission is I'd say look for
people that are doing the things that
you want to do people that could be kind
of like uh leaders or examples of
accomplishing the things you want to do
follow them I don't know I think Twitter
is is for me a place where I you know
follow warp cast as well where I follow
individuals that are just uh you know
doing things that I I want to Aspire to
do I think that's a powerful Tool
YouTube is a powerful tool podcasts um I
think just immersing yourself in your
specific Niche if you have one um and
following those individuals that are
talking about it and you know uh
listening to the experts but also be
careful if all they're doing is talking
that talk are they an influencer being
paid by a protocol to do it so do your
own research remember the builders have
different incentives than uh those that
are you know Distributing content on
Twitter um so as a leader how to
encourage people to do it you have to do
it yourself or have someone on the
leadership team doing it and I think
they have to talk about that they're
doing it so one in team meetings talk
about podcasts that you've listened to
and why you found them really
interesting second if that's not if you
don't have that space make the space so
put a meeting on a calendar that's
optional that the whole team can come
and join that meeting invite and talk
about interesting things they've learned
that week and we I'm going to add on
that because I'm at the same company as
oliv at moonsong Labs we have a weekly
uh devs uh news and and sharing for for
learnings and news and anybody's able to
attend so it's like a non-developer I
will go sometimes too and so if you have
multiple people who are looking at maybe
I'm looking at more marketing other
people are looking at more technical
stuff other people are looking at
regulation you can kind of work together
to find the areas of interest that
people are researching so I was sorry to
add to that guys
um hold on my questions just went down
um all right love Olivia's comment about
learning from failures how do you make
time from Retros learnings when there's
so much pressure to move on to the next
thing often early and often feedback is
never an untimely gift um one of the
things just I do personally in one-on
ones with their teams especially um you
know when we're more talking about kind
of product and design that's sort of
tangible deliverables um three quick
questions what's going well what's not
going well how can I help and having
that conversation on a regular basis I
think you know helps to uncover some of
these challenges or points of friction
um additionally Retros are really
wonderful obviously everyone has
different ceremonies and processes you
know our version of agile is going to
look different than B's version of agile
um but holding time for formal
structures um where people are welcome
to share what is not going well or did
not go well um as an opportunity to do
better not a punitive measure sounds
really obvious sometimes challenging in
practice especially when we're stressed
or especially when we expected things to
go a certain way and didn't um and so
the you know the thing to remember
always I you know I I know this may not
be new to you guys um but it is never
you against your teammate it is always
you and your teammate against the
problem yeah and I I think something
that you were saying earlier is that
it's actually healthy to talk about the
negative to talk about the problems and
how you can overcome them right so I
think taking that time like to what Evan
was saying to actually analyze what's
working what's not working how can we
help doing that as a team is very
important but also doing that as an
individual is extremely important right
holding yourself accountable because you
know no one really has the time to uh
hold your hand through every everything
right like you're the one at the end of
the day who has to look in the mirror
and say okay what is working for me
where am I seeing the best results where
is my time best spent and what things
aren't exactly working and what can I
take off my plate so I think in
individual account accountability is
very important as well yeah I feel like
I'm going to be like Nike here like you
just have to do it like just you just
have to like find the time I think that
a lot of times in blockchain like it
there it's prices are very time
sensitive so obviously not in the middle
of a security issue do you say like
let's where where did we fail here but I
think that you know two weeks down you
have to go back and look at this like
where what practices what needs to
change to make sure this didn't
happen all right so in this Spirit of
putting Mission slte first what do you
do when the te the needs of the team's
team evolves but team members work isn't
evolving to meet the shifting
needs yeah I can I can jump in on that
one like obviously every situation is
different I think a key thing is
communication so the team member has
known that their that their work needs
to evolve it's not meeting expectations
you need to have that those
conversations even when they're
difficult but I also would say that you
know if someone you're team is only as
strong as the weakest person so if
someone isn't stepping up if someone
isn't performing at the level of
Excellence that you need that is a
detriment to your team and you do need
to move quickly to fix that yeah teams
are commitments that we make to each
other the second those commitments are
not in a position where they can be
honored in the same way it warrants a
conversation and that goes both ways
whether for individuals and also you
know the the leaders who support them
all right I think we probably we're
going to try to get through both of
these but we're definitely going to hit
this first one what personality traits
do you look at when recruiting new
talent that gives you hints about
resilience I I'll comment there real
quick I would say passion and excitement
when I see that light and that spark in
someone like they are so lit up about
what they're doing I'm like okay they
they have that energy they have that
level of passion and dedication to
really show up and be hungry I look for
hunger in people um people that want to
show up and and do the work and are
excited about it because I think you
know they'll they'll have that energy
and that momentum to get back up if we
get knocked down so I think passion
spark and energy is what I look for yeah
I love that they also need to be able to
talk about their failures if you ask
them what their weaknesses are or what
they've learned from failures and they
kind of go quiet it's not a good
sign um I definitely think that uh you
know folks need to um be able to do what
they think makes sense so and you know
individual sense of autonomy and comfort
there um I also think that
I I'm big on the yes and people um you
know if we have a conversation we
identify a task to be done I do not want
to just execute on the task I want us to
explore the idea so the execution of the
task is the start not the end of how we
act on it and I can't see the clock but
I think we're very close to time 28 28
seconds all right I'm going to take the
the last 28 seconds we have to say thank
you so much to everybody for being here
for your great questions uh to our
amazing panelists please you know we're
going to stick around afterwards if you
have questions you want to talk to us
we're here again follow everybody on
Twitter look at what they're doing um DM
them they will answer you you have
proven Authority Rachel onchain and _
Smith um and thank you again you guys
have been a really really great audience
these questions were really insightful
and happy last day of Devcon everyone
all right thank
[Applause]
every thank you again to Evan Rachel
Bridget Olivia for that amazing and
inspiring conversation our next session
will begin in a couple of minutes and
this is one that you'll want to stay
tuned to because it's going to be
covering the legal considerations that
developers would need to think about
when they are developing or working with
open- Source projects so stay tuned
everyone
[Music]
okay okay perfect
out
okay
[Music]
so
cool keep my
[Music]
that
just
[Music]
hello welcome back everyone next we have
a very interesting talk from Eva Juan on
navigating developer liability in open
source code let's give a round of
applause to Eva
[Music]
hi everybody uh I am Eva Wong thank you
for my little Entourage for helping me
bring things uh to the stage uh so just
I'm just going to pause for a moment and
see if anyone else is coming to this
talk um so developer navigating
developer liability in open source
blockchain projects it's quite a long
title and I am very conscious that I am
on stage five on the last day of Devcon
and right next door we've just had Peter
V valkenberg talk about tornado cash and
right now Hart Montgomery is talking
about open source Licensing in the Linux
foundation so quite a lot of big acts to
follow and I'm up here by myself after
that lovely convivial panel that we just
had so who am I and what am I going to
be talking about
today uh director of legal at parity
Technologies polka do so uh how are
there any lawyers in the room here oh my
God I think we should all go outside
afterwards and have a little uh support
network Therapy Group group therapy
session congratulations and I'm so
pleased that there are other lawyers
around because you are a web 3 lawyer
and what does that mean does this
picture resonate with you at all uh a
little bit Yeah I think earlier on one
of the uh moderators was asking me what
is a web three lawyer and what do web
three lawyers do well uh it takes a
certain personality type to be happy
navigating the uncharted waters of law
where law and Technology meet and simply
the law does not keep up yet with what
the technology is capable of and that
goes to it impacts also other areas not
just law and um I think the certain
personality type is someone who's
curious who wants to change the world
who also uh wants intellectual
stimulation but also doesn't mind the
constant anxiety that is associated with
being a web three
lawyer I work at parity Technologies
parity Technologies for those of you who
don't know co-founded by Dr Gavin wood
also ex- co-founder of uh ethereum of
course parity Technologies is um a core
blockchain engineering company and one
of the main contributors to polka dot uh
hopefully most of you have heard of
polka dot and why am I talking about
parity Technologies a little bit more
I'm not here to you know promote parity
Technologies but obviously those of you
who want to know about the tech uh
please speak to some of my colleagues
who some of them might be around uh we
just had our our own developer
conference Subzero prior to Devcon and
there are some amazing projects that are
going on and if you're a developer and
you're looking to go work somewhere with
some pretty exciting things then parity
Technologies is one of such
organizations um what's unique about
parity Technologies I think is that
there's 75% Engineers 25% support staff
and we exist to support all the
engineering that uh Ingenuity and
Innovation that happens there and why
because as a director of legal I'm
constantly thinking about things that
protect the company but also have to
protect the developers because that 75%
of them spread across 37 different
countries so when I say web 3 lawyers
are special uh web 3 HR Specialists are
special web three accounts and finance
have to do with new ways of accounting
and finance uh considerations when it
comes to working in this area um polka
do I'm not going to explain the
technology of polka dot but I am going
to point out a couple of things about
polka dot which are fairly unique which
impact the conversation around liability
uh polka do is one of the largest Dows
and also the only major web 3 protocol
in which all governance is approved and
conducted entirely on chain so bear
those things in mind as I go through
this
talk caveat some disclaimers I'm a
lawyer the lawyers in the room will know
I am here to talk about law but none of
this is legal advice and uh that is a
KGI not a shibba Inu
uh there's also jurisdictional
considerations I am can tell by my
accent I'm actually Dutch Hong Kong
Chinese but I live in the UK I live in
the UK and I'm qualified in England and
the Wales so some of the cases I'm going
to talk about are not UK they are French
they are uh Netherlands Dutch but I'm
not Dutch qualified although I am Dutch
and uh the US so but the key takeaways
from some of these cases that I've sort
of absorbed into my mind uh the theories
of law still apply in other
jurisdictions to different degrees so
it's still worth thinking about as a
lawyer even if it's not necessarily your
jurisdiction uh here we go this talk I'm
going to talk about types of developer
liability or types of liability that
affect developers and and then I'm going
to talk about uh some particular cases
that might be of interest and what I've
taken away from them and then I'm going
to talk about if you're a developer how
you might want to mitigate and protect
yourself so first of all I was assuming
that this is Devcon therefore it will
mostly be developers in the room here if
uh that is the case then you're a
developer who are you what are you doing
that impacts what kind of liability
might uh attract you or you might be
liable for um so you might be an
employee quite likely you could be a
contractor you could be a contractor for
multiple customers uh receiving your
service that you could also be an
individual contributor to different
blockchain projects you could be a dow
participant you could be a dow
participant participant of more than one
Dow so in these different aspects you
could potentially be liable for
different
things on that basis oh also worth
pointing out that some developers are
also co-founders CEOs and directors of
companies that is a whole different ball
game about of liability that I can't
talk about right now but we're thinking
about if you're in that position so
types of risk and liability so for those
of you who are lawyers this will be
familiar territory for those of you who
aren't this is the only bit where I'm
going to attempt to explain some legal
stuff uh using cartoons
um so civil liability I explain it quite
simply as often this is contract based
so if you agree something with someone
you're going to do something or they're
going to do something you write it down
if one of you is in breach you sue the
other person that's contract law sorry
lawyers very very simple terms here uh
negligence or otherwise the law of
thought which was something that sent me
to sleep at law school but brought to
life by this uh interesting cartoon of
uh a ginger beer bottle and a snail uh
this is the this is the area of law
about duty of care where there isn't a
written contract between two individuals
or two entities and um a it's more about
whether there is a reason that one
person might be responsible to be to
take a reasonable level of care and
could be responsible for another person
where they suffer a loss so um just
talking about this the the ginger beer
and the snail stems from a 1932 case in
Scotland where a lady drank a bottle of
ginger beer there was a decomposing
snail in it and uh the manufacturer of
that ginger beer obviously does not have
a contract with the individual who drank
that bottle of ginger beer so how do you
establish that the ginger beer
manufacturer is at fault well this was
the case that established uh duty of
care and this becomes relevant in the
cases that I'm about to go and discuss
and uh since we're talking about open
source as well uh an open source license
is a form of contract and and a a normal
proprietary software license is also a
form of contract so when it comes to
open source licensing if you're in
breach of an open source license that's
a contract issue so this is all civil
liability when it comes to criminal
liability why does it matter to a
software developer uh well obviously if
you create code that intentionally goes
about to break the law I.E you're going
to go hack a government system where you
go steal some funds then that's
obviously criminal liability however in
the context of some of the cases that
we're thinking about and what might be
less obvious and more of the murky
Waters and unintentional consequences of
uh laws being used against people who
don't necessarily expect them to be uh
liable for certain things it's uh where
you might be developing a technology
neutral an a neutral platform that is
that is that that you don't necessarily
know how people are going to use it this
is particularly the case in blockchain
because of immutable self-executing
smart
contracts case
studies case studies uh most of you will
probably recognize some of these people
and there was a keynote speech by Peter
Van valkenberg next door just about an
hour ago I think on tornado cach
specifically uh about privacy I caught a
little bit of it if you haven't seen it
I'm definitely going to go watch it
again he I think he did it in the in the
in in poetry form with cartoons it
sounded amazing I'm definitely going to
watch it I hear some I see some nodding
there and I was given a leaflet by uh
one of our ex Rockstar parity developers
um Engineers uh about tornado cach
anyway so um tornado cach Netherland
case Alexi perv us case Roman storm uh
these are ongoing cases so
very much subject to change and very
much I'm not going to talk about the
merits of the case but I am going to
talk a little bit about the impact of
some of these cases and why there are
some key takeaways for those of us who
might be developers or work in a company
that is 75% uh core blockchain Engineers
so Alexi per earlier this well he was
arrested shock horror uh many headlines
many many reasons to be very concerned
about this but the outcome was uh he was
convicted earlier this year for 64
months for his participation in tornado
cache tornado cache is a privacy mixer
which in itself privacy is a basic human
right uh however some of the activities
that happened a percentage of the
activities that happened on tornado cash
were not quite so innocent so Alexi perv
what is the key takeaway here so the
Dutch Court said because because he was
aware of the misuse of tornado cach by
criminals continue to maintain and
develop the system without implementing
adequate measures to prevent its
exploitation for illegal purposes
contrary to claims of tornado Cash's
decentralized nature per of and his team
exercise effective control over the
platform so the key words there are
effective control over the platform
particularly through its web interface
the control implied a responsibility to
prevent its use for unlawful activities
a responsibility that was neglected so
this ruling is very precedent setting
it's in the Netherlands but it means
that open- Source developers could be
held accountable if their Creations are
deliberately designed or knowingly
maintained in a manner that facilitates
criminal
conduct that's Alexi perf the case is
now going on appeal uh there are funds
for uh people who want to contribute to
his legal defense and
um Roman storm he was arrested sure a
few months afterwards and the case is
going to trial in January next year
that's in the US and the indictments are
actually not so specific to code
development more about conspiracy to
commit money laundering conspiracy to
operate a unlicensed money transmitting
business conspiracy to commit sanctions
violations but the indictment does talk
about the creation of torado cach as
well as the operation and promotion so
the trial is the the discussions in that
trial will be uh instructive for
developers of decentralized platforms
going forward um tulip trading tulip
training some of you might recognize
this man as Dr Craig Wright who is the
only person to be proven not to be
Satoshi because he decided to take a
whole bunch I mean this is a copyright
case I don't want to go too much into
the copyright case but you can read up
on it copyright case very interesting uh
he is not Satoshi but tulip trading is a
company that he owns and uh what he did
what the company did is that they
alleged to have claimed they they
claimed to have lost access to billions
of dollars in Bitcoin due to a hack and
they argued that 16 Bitcoin core
developers had a duty to provide this
goes back to the snail and the beer
bottle they said that there was a duty
to provide access and recover uh the
stolen funds by implementing a software
patch because these devs had control
over the Bitcoin network uh H the high
court said nope there's no duty of care
because of the decentralized nature of
blockchain and there isn't a sufficient
relationship that exists that would
create these kind of obligations so few
sorry sorry of relief there however the
court of appeal so um you know how I
said Alexi perv is taking his case to
appeal in law in most countries the
first decision means you can go and get
a second opinion on it effectively you
can go and appeal it by creating more uh
by providing more evidence or providing
different arguments so the cause of
appeal in this case in tulip trading
where the developers were like yay we
don't have responsibility uh tulip
trading had money and said okay I'm
going to take this to appeal we're going
to take this to appeal and the court of
appeal allowed the possibility that a
duty of care might app apply and they
sent the case back to the first Court uh
because they said that if the developers
can alter the protocol have the
authority to implement changes access
user assets on a blockchain or have
significant influence over the network
functionality they might bear
responsibilities to others so they might
have a duty of care and this could
possibly establish a new form of Duty of
care in decentralized contexts uh and
that could include doing what um T
trading were asking these developers to
do so the takeaway here the court didn't
actually find that a fiary duty of care
exists but it left the door open to say
that it might exist and because Craig
Wright lost his copyright case uh or the
identity case this case has now been
dropped discontinued I mean t trading
has been discontinued so we won't
actually know originally you know we
were all on tender hooks on the edge of
our seats waiting for tulip trading to
go to court to see what the outcome was
going to be but right now we don't know
uh but the takeaway is that it's
inconclusive but it's possible that
developers might owe a duty of care to
protect user interests if there is an
element of control and influence that's
the UK so we've gone Netherlands us UK
negligence criminal and now we go to
idal 5 minutes time okay idal there's a
lot of legal cases here so I'm sorry if
I'm speeding through I'm conscious of
time but there's a lot to cover UK da is
interesting because that's a chatbot and
some of you might know that uh the
idow um individuals the token holders
the members of the the idow were served
court documents through a chat box uh
pretty novel pretty pretty novel so yeah
law enforcement finds novel ways of
enforcing what they need to enforce when
they want to Uka is relevant said this
is a regulatory matter this is the cftc
that's the Commodities Futures and
trading um commission they uh regulate
Commodities training and they felt that
Uka was offering Commodities trading
without proper registration and the
precedent that was set here is that the
Court held that idal a DA is a person
and could be liable for these for um
compliance with these regulations and
not just to be held but is actually was
actually violating the law and prior to
this it was believed that Dows and defi
platforms were protected from regulatory
scrutiny because they are so
decentralized this was the a pivotal
case in the US again it's not
necessarily the case in other
jurisdictions but um it is the case here
that adal won't protect you in the US
and um an IND idual token holder could
also be liable for the actions of a da
um there are some nuances here and I
think the lawyers might find this
interesting because this was a default
judgment case uh the case no no one
argued against what the regulator was
alleging so uh that's because it's a dow
and no one stood up and that might be
intentional because maybe nobody wanted
to stand up it was also the case that we
believe the founders allegedly formed
Uka in order to pass everything over to
Uka to avoid liability so this very much
uh circumstantial and very lawyer-like
I'm saying it depends and it was in the
US but some key takeaways there I think
to be had uh then at the end there we've
got the telegram case or rather uh the
pavl jof case uh last year no this year
August um August CEO of a major
communications platform gets arrested in
Paris like Alexi perf it was like WTF
what's going on here is Elon Musk going
to get arrested if he goes to France uh
so again you need to look at the
nitty-gritty of what actually was being
alleged and um the reasons why he was
arrested so he was arrested and then
there were six charges brought against
him uh I am going to go into those six
charges because it's relevant there's
complicity in managing an online
platform to enable illegal transactions
by an organized group refusal to
cooperate with law enforcement
authorities complicity in the
dissemination of child sex abuse of
material complicity in drug trafficking
providing cryptology services without
proper declaration importing a
cryptography tool without prior
declaration those last two particularly
got quite a lot of us quite concerned
because it's cryptography um now
breaking this down and if you separate
these charges it's actually unlikely
that this will have any impact on
developer liability I believe and the
reason why I think that is because the
arrest is based on a French law not a
French law where a CEO is actually the
representative who is responsible for
any criminal activity of a company so he
was arrested not because he was a
developer he was arrested because he's
the CEO and in France you arrest the CEO
if the company potentially has done
something illegal have they done
something illegal actually it's probably
more the case that yes it's a technology
neutral platform and then you have the
analogies similar to tornado cache you
have the analogies like if you're a
lighter manufacturer would you be
responsible for arson if you are a
manufacturer of a cricket bat or cricket
bat I mean baseball bat uh either bat
would you be responsible for you know
the injuries that that back could have
uh like you know guns don't kill people
people rappers do apparently so um that
the telegram case brought about loads of
discussions about this kind of thing and
it's interesting because it telegram
wasn't intentionally developed to allow
money laundering or drug trafficking but
it's now a criminal ready platform and
criminality occurs on it and telegram
wasn't doing an awful lot to support la
enforcement authorities so this is why
he was arrested uh it's very much to say
we can do this we're going to bend the
law so that we can do we can achieve the
agenda of law enforcement so in contrast
tornado cach was purposely developed
anonymized transactions is that illegal
in its own right no telegram has however
now done more moderation and is uh is is
is probably uh cooperating more with law
enforcement I am going to be very
shortly out of time I better a
click how to protect yourself uh lawyers
are your best friends of course I'll say
that but you know lawyers like I said
you know we three lawyers are pretty
unusual we're here to cooperate
facilitate collaborate navigate with
developers and with companies
uh second way you can protect yourself
to the licensing Point get your code in
order make sure you do audits make sure
you are compliant with any any open
source licenses that you take from out
there or you build upon uh if you do
release code with open source then
consider your licenses with care so work
fre we free lawyers are very helpful
because we have to interpret all of this
stuff other ways you can protect
yourself uh we've talked about
decentralization we've talked about um
control of networks and influence if you
choose the more decentralized this is
one takeaway I think I have is the more
decentralized the less likely there is a
chance of liability attracting uh if
you're going to go if you're going to
participate in Dows which um I think
most of us probably are a member of a DA
in one form or another choose carefully
what you vote on uh be and consider how
that governance system
works and key
takeaways always do your own research
and talk to your lawyers and proceed
with
caution I am really over time aren't I
so uh how are the questions
looking any
questions all right so we do have one
question over here Eva do you want to
take this one a simple answer is no but
I am getting educated um can I can I get
a picture of this so that I can go and
uh look into this this is very
interesting uh whoever asked a question
would they like to speak so that you can
share your knowledge with all of us yes
please is that possible can we share the
mic are we allowed to share the mic
because this is a collaborative
education
session can you come up is he allowed to
come
up oh okay we'll talk afterwards this is
brilliant so in in the polka dot world
we actually have uh uh a thing called
poker legal where all the lawyers get
together from the ecosystem and we share
information like this and uh
I would love to learn more because this
is interesting other questions anyone
else was that the only one we don't have
any live questions rolling in but feel
free to scan the QR code if you have
more
questions Great I Am overtime but I'm
not because there weren't that many
questions after
all uh well thank you very much everyone
all right thank you thank you hope it
was helpful
you
[Music]
he
B
[Music]
o
w
[Music]
a
m
[Music]
hello welcome back everyone so our next
speaker we have Jose kabita from the
ethereum foundation he will give us a
talk on lessons and learning in people
Ops at the EF let's give a round of
applause to
[Applause]
[Music]
Jose hey
everyone so good afternoon my name is
Jose I work for people Ops at ethereum
Foundation um I joined ethereum
foundation around two years ago so this
has been an experiment uh we didn't have
people operations before I joined the EF
and um I want to share with you some of
the learnings that we got uh for the
past two years so what I'm going to talk
uh today is our experiences I said for
the past few years are go throughout
challenges positive aspects and
learnings in both recruitment people
experience in development and
offboarding as well and especially how
these differ differ from other
traditional organizations um that exist
in the field but first I will provide
some context on why doing people
operations at the f is a very particular
challenge full of nuances um mostly
because of the way that thef is
organized so the way that thef is
organized is thef is part of a much
larger
ecosystem it is uh an organization that
exists uh at the frontier of what we
have known so far one that supports a
blockchain ecosystem without controlling
it and what that means is also a work in
progress so every day we get to learn
more about what thef is and what kind of
organization it needs to be for the
present and for the future to support
obviously ethereum's uh long-term growth
if we zoom in a little bit on how the F
uh relates to the
ecosystem um the F was new and we didn't
know the best way uh for teams to
organize themselves and to relate to the
ecosystem so we prioritized creating an
environment where actually different
teams could choose to organize
themselves differently depending on the
goals that they actually wanted to
achieve and it they thought it was best
for them to achieve those goals so this
resulted resulted in having more like a
community of teams than actual um a set
of typical company teams that are kind
of standardized all across the board
there are multiple ways in how these
teams interact with each other and with
the other entities that form the theorem
ecosystem so there are teams that work
at the frontier of the EF there are
teams that work um within the EF uh
there are teams that work externally uh
there are teams that work with ethereum
ecosystem entities that are again at the
frontier of the EF so there are many
ways in which these teams collaborate
with uh with one another and with the
ecosystem they're largely independent as
I said some of them uh are internally
some of them work at the frontier so
that is very important in talking about
the way also moving forward on how
people operations works for for these
teams these teams are also largely
autonomous so they work in a
decentralized way um we have and they
have a high degree of autonomy some
decisions such as for example road map
apps and priorities are taken by these
teams in consultation with
leadership but most of them are also
made uh independently aside from some
prescriptive decisions such as for
example uh legal matters which obviously
need to uh be complied with all across
the board there's quite fair amount of
leeway for teams to move around and to
actually choose the setting as I said
that are more suitable for them to help
them achieve um their own goals so
having said this how does this actually
impact people operations in Broad
Strokes in traditional organizations uh
people Ops is kind of more structured
and has more predictive outcomes um we
aim to provide they aim to provide a
consistent experience for all the teams
within the same organization at the F
things are slightly different because
these teams work independently and they
kind of form their own culture
internally we aim to be as diverse as
possible uh to make sure it works for
everyone but we kind of maintain the
same minimum threshold um to that make
sure that there's a minimum standard
that all teams um can
meet talking a little bit about
Recruitment and going into people Ops um
directly so as I mentioned
before teams are independent so
different teams mean different
subcultures mean a different uh way of
working so this means that working for a
certain team at thef can be
substantially different than working for
other team Within ndf this reflects on
how they communicate internally ranging
from how to when to what platforms they
use compensation philosophy way of
working practices interactions with the
adjacent community ethereum community
Etc so what we learned from this is that
the best way for people operations to
actually facilitate the recruitment
process is to let them lead the way and
we are actually helping and um
holding hands to let them do whatever
they want to do within obviously some
limits um but using our expertise to
help them achieve their own goals so
this can range from purely Operational
Support there are teams that get to us
and say hey I know exactly who I want to
hire because I have a very close
relationship with a community that works
around my team and I want to hire that
person and I just need to set up the
operational process of it and that is
fine we can obviously help with that
there are other teams who are are less
sure about what the process looks like
so what they usually do is okay so I
want to
hire this kind of profile which can be
more or less defined and then they kind
of ask for our help from for do the pro
for doing the process from end to end so
that goes from defining the profile
sourcing the candidate establishing a
hiring process running the process
helping them run the interviews until
the offer so it's fairly common for the
EF to hire external contributors as I
said um this is also a very good way to
lower the risk when we hire someone is
okay if this person was an external
contributor and was already contributing
to the EF as I said before uh working at
the frontier between the EF and the
ecosystem that obviously lowers the risk
because we know that person from their
past contribution contributions so it's
easier to just bring them in um and we
know that they will have a good fit
within the organization another thing
that we
learned that is probably a challenge for
us that doesn't happen does not happen
within traditional organizations is that
whenever we get a candidate that is a
good candidate for a certain position
within a team it's much harder for us to
share that profile with other teams
because as I said teams work and hire
largely independently so we are not
always aware of their hiring needs so
moving one profile from one team's
pipeline to another team's pipeline can
be substantially different difficult
when we talk about people experience and
their development there's also a lot to
say here so because we are a
nonstructured well we're a structured
organization but we are a decentralized
organization uh and we don't have we are
a flat organization so we don't have job
titles it's in traditional organizations
it's easier for people to feel
progression through changes in their job
titles so you know that when you go from
Junior something into senior something
there is a progression there so you have
somewhere to look for because uh maybe
someone in the past also did that
progression and now you have some kind
of role model within the F that does not
exist because aside from a few
exceptions we don't have drob titles so
it's much harder to be like a developer
in the same team for four years 5 years
and not and feel like you have a
progression unless we put some measures
in place the good thing with this is
that it opens the door to more
unstructured uh learning paths so you
are actually free to take in the
responsibilities that you want to take
uh either those are within the current
team that you're working for or if those
are also within another team that you're
not working for so you're free to
collaborate with several teams within
thef if that is your goal so we tend to
focus more on contribution contribution
than actual career progression another
challenge is that um that provides a
more
unstructured um path for people which
for some uh profiles out there and for
some psychological profiles that is not
so easy to cope with um we've learned
that for example a good way to tackle
this career progression and this feeling
of growth is through to um feedback
rounds so something that we have been
working and experimenting with a few
teams in the past is feedback rounds so
actually go around the team including
the team lead we ask some for some
feedback things that I did well things
that I were a challenge for me in the
past and then we nudge the person to
establish a few goals um in which they
would like to grow in in the future and
challenges that they would like to
tackle and we help them tackle those
those those goals so that can mean like
they're working on a soft skill such as
I want to communicate better or they're
working on a hard skill such as I want
to learn certain language or work on
certain uh topic of research or or
whatever so that kind of conveys an inst
structured sense of progression and
growth U but it needs to be
intrinsically owned by the person it's
not the F that is going to Define
actually what the next step is and
finally when we talk about offboarding
that is also some how different that
thef than it is on traditional
organizations so as you might have
guessed right now uh the process is not
the same so we learned that as I said
before the frontier between thef and the
ecosystem is very porous and we want it
to be like that we wanted to keep it
that way um we want to promote
collaboration we also need to adapt our
working arrangements so we need to make
them as flexible as possible um people
leaving is sometimes a net positive for
the ethereum foundation and for the
ethereum community because these people
might leave these people might go out to
pursue their other projects uh in the
ecosystem and that obviously strengthen
strengthens uh ethereum's resilience um
the challenge is that by making it as
flexible as possible we also reduce
stability and predictability in people's
paths within the EF this is also a
challenge that we're comfortable uh with
taking because for us it's much more
important uh the contribution um for
ethereum and for the ethereum foundation
rather than the work Arrangement per se
that we have on paper this is just a
glimpse of some of the things that we
learned in the past two years we don't
know what the future will hold um we are
still learning I think this is going to
be um a forever work in progress people
operations is fairly new ATF um people
operations is also I dare to say fair
fairly new in web 3 um we are still
inter iterating but what I know is that
we have great people working um both in
the ethereum foundation and the
ecosystem as we were able to see for the
past uh few days we have a great team uh
in people operations right now at the EF
as well and we will change as the EF and
ethereum changes as well we will keep on
adapting and finding new ways to help
people collaborate in different ways
with collaboration in as a focus and in
the center rather than typical working
Arrangements thank you so
[Applause]
much all right thank you Jose for the
amazing talk now we can take some live
questions
here um do you want to take the most
uploaded one yeah what is the one thing
you thought needed changed within the EF
but then realized you were wrong great
question so
I remember at the beginning when we um
when we started doing people operations
one of the things that we started to
approach was compensation philosophy and
how should teams think about
compensation um one thing that was
clearly wrong was to give strict
indications on how they should think
about
compensations that is not something that
all teams took very well understandably
because as I said all team teams have
different cultures and one team is very
different than the next so what we
instead did was okay let's instead turn
this into kind of a guideline to teach
them how to think about compensation we
will not say hey you should think about
an interval of compensation between this
and that rather you should think about
how you want to approach compensation is
location important to you is skill
important to you is experience more
important to you
etc etc etc so choosing from a set of
data points rather than just you know um
getting um salary bands or something
like that worked much better for
us uh next question how do you protect
the culture of the EF with a
decentralized
approach that is also a great question
um I feel like um I I'm very lucky to
work in this place because this is a
problem that
kind of solves itself uh one of the
things that we do have at the ethereum
foundation is alignment with ethereum
and alignment with the mission I cannot
say I cannot think about anyone that
works at the F and at the ecosystem that
is probably here present today that
doesn't feel very strongly about um how
ethereum should move forward or how
ethereum is good and the good at the
potential that that it has uh to impact
the society so I actually don't need to
I never felt the need to try to align
everyone and try to protect the culture
if things are super decentralized
because that is kind of a prerequisite
when people kind of work in this space
so that work is definitely uh already
kind of done compared to traditional
organization as well uh we're stretching
on time right here so number one lesson
you would share with the new web 3
project that wants to work in a
decentralized way when thinking about
people
Ops um
okay 10 seconds to respond to this
question uh test don't uh don't go super
Allin in one solution and test and
iterate as much as possible go for the
MVP which is a word that many hate but
go for the MVP test go around if it
doesn't work change and listen to people
I think that's that's one thing that we
definitely learned a metal learning in
in the middle of all this all right
thank you so much Jose
[Applause]
all right uh thank you everyone for
coming uh we actually have to reset the
stage for the closing ceremony so it
will be great that I kindly ask everyone
to make your way out of the room thank
you
[Music]
oh
he
[Music]
t
o
see
[Music]
e
for
[Music]
for for
e
[Music]
for
ch
[Music]
oh
for
[Music]
for e
for
[Music]
[Laughter]
e e
[Music]
[Laughter]
oh
[Music]
oh for
that
[Music]
for
e
[Music]